Course ID	Subject	Catalog	Subject Description	 Course Description	Attribute Formal Desc
19	AMES	 165S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19	AMES	 165S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19	AMES	 165S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	(CZ) Civilizations
19	AMES	 165S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	Seminar
19	CULANTH	 365S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19	CULANTH	 365S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19	CULANTH	 365S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	(CZ) Civilizations
19	CULANTH	 365S	THE WORLD OF JAPANESE POP CULT	An examination of modern Japanese culture through a variety of media including literary texts, cultural representations, and films. Different material each year.	Seminar
22	LIT	290	SP TOP INT'L LIT & CULTURE	Topics in international culture, examined through literary texts, film, and other media. Organized according to trends, topics, and genres.	Topics Course
40	AMES	129	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
40	AMES	129	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
40	AMES	129	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CZ) Civilizations
40	CINE	250	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
40	CINE	250	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
40	CINE	250	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CZ) Civilizations
40	LIT	214	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
40	LIT	214	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
40	LIT	214	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CZ) Civilizations
40	VMS	235	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
40	VMS	235	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
40	VMS	235	MASTERS OF CHINESE CINEMA	Films, documentaries, television series, and soap operas produced in Mainland China in the post-Mao era, modern and contemporary Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Topics include the history and aesthetics of the new wave cinema, soap operas as the new forum for public debate o popular culture, and debate over the relationship between Euro-American modernist and the national cinema.	(CZ) Civilizations
64	AAAS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
64	AAAS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
75	AAAS	 190S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of African & African American Studies 190.	Seminar
75	AAAS	 190S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of African & African American Studies 190.	Topics Course
81	AAAS	102	INTRO AFR-AMER STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in African American Studies: slavery and abolitionism, theories of race and racism, gender and race, the era of Jim Crow, cultural expressions, political and intellectual thought, African American freedom struggles from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries, and race and public policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
81	AAAS	102	INTRO AFR-AMER STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in African American Studies: slavery and abolitionism, theories of race and racism, gender and race, the era of Jim Crow, cultural expressions, political and intellectual thought, African American freedom struggles from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries, and race and public policy.	(CZ) Civilizations
81	AAAS	102	INTRO AFR-AMER STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in African American Studies: slavery and abolitionism, theories of race and racism, gender and race, the era of Jim Crow, cultural expressions, political and intellectual thought, African American freedom struggles from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries, and race and public policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
81	LIT	102	INTRO AFR-AMER STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in African American Studies: slavery and abolitionism, theories of race and racism, gender and race, the era of Jim Crow, cultural expressions, political and intellectual thought, African American freedom struggles from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries, and race and public policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
81	LIT	102	INTRO AFR-AMER STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in African American Studies: slavery and abolitionism, theories of race and racism, gender and race, the era of Jim Crow, cultural expressions, political and intellectual thought, African American freedom struggles from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries, and race and public policy.	(CZ) Civilizations
81	LIT	102	INTRO AFR-AMER STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in African American Studies: slavery and abolitionism, theories of race and racism, gender and race, the era of Jim Crow, cultural expressions, political and intellectual thought, African American freedom struggles from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries, and race and public policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
82	AAAS	103	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
82	AAAS	103	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
82	AAAS	103	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CZ) Civilizations
82	CULANTH	105	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
82	CULANTH	105	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
82	CULANTH	105	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CZ) Civilizations
82	HISTORY	129	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
82	HISTORY	129	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
82	HISTORY	129	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CZ) Civilizations
82	ICS	110	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
82	ICS	110	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
82	ICS	110	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CZ) Civilizations
82	POLSCI	108	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
82	POLSCI	108	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
82	POLSCI	108	INTRO TO AFRICAN STUDIES	A range of disciplinary perspectives on key topics in contemporary African Studies: nationalism and pan-Africanism, imperialism and colonialism, genocide and famine, development and democratization, art and music, age and gender.	(CZ) Civilizations
506	ARABIC	101	ELEMENTARY ARABIC	Understanding, speaking, reading, and writing modern standard Arabic. Language laboratory.	(FL) Foreign Language
507	ARABIC	102	ELEMENTARY ARABIC	Continuation of Arabic 101. Prerequisite: Arabic 101 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
512	ARABIC	203	INTERMEDIATE ARABIC	Reading, composition, and conversation in modern standard Arabic. Readings include selections from the Qur'an, contemporary literature, and the Arabic press. Prerequisite: Arabic 102 or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
512	ARABIC	203	INTERMEDIATE ARABIC	Reading, composition, and conversation in modern standard Arabic. Readings include selections from the Qur'an, contemporary literature, and the Arabic press. Prerequisite: Arabic 102 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
513	ARABIC	204	INTERMEDIATE ARABIC	Continuation of Arabic 203. Prerequisite: Arabic 203 or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
513	ARABIC	204	INTERMEDIATE ARABIC	Continuation of Arabic 203. Prerequisite: Arabic 203 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
516	ARABIC	305	ADVANCED ARABIC	Readings in classical and contemporary fiction and nonfiction. Works include al-Jahiz, Ibn Arabi, Taha Husain, Ibn Battuta, Ghada al-Samman and 1001 Nights.  Prerequisite: Arabic 204 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
516	ARABIC	305	ADVANCED ARABIC	Readings in classical and contemporary fiction and nonfiction. Works include al-Jahiz, Ibn Arabi, Taha Husain, Ibn Battuta, Ghada al-Samman and 1001 Nights.  Prerequisite: Arabic 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
516	ARABIC	305	ADVANCED ARABIC	Readings in classical and contemporary fiction and nonfiction. Works include al-Jahiz, Ibn Arabi, Taha Husain, Ibn Battuta, Ghada al-Samman and 1001 Nights.  Prerequisite: Arabic 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
517	ARABIC	306	ADVANCED ARABIC	Students will transition from reading short texts to completing a full novel, Sayyidi wa Habibi by Hoda Barakat. Focus on analyzing and discussing literary content. Students will strengthen their reading, writing, speaking, and comprehension skills. includes a service-learning component with native speakers. Recommended prerequisite: Arabic 305 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
517	ARABIC	306	ADVANCED ARABIC	Students will transition from reading short texts to completing a full novel, Sayyidi wa Habibi by Hoda Barakat. Focus on analyzing and discussing literary content. Students will strengthen their reading, writing, speaking, and comprehension skills. includes a service-learning component with native speakers. Recommended prerequisite: Arabic 305 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
529	ARTHIST	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
529	ARTHIST	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
547	ARTHIST	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
547	ARTHIST	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
547	ARTHIST	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(CZ) Civilizations
547	ARTHIST	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
547	CLST	354	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
547	CLST	354	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
547	CLST	354	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(CZ) Civilizations
547	CLST	354	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
547	VMS	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
547	VMS	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
547	VMS	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(CZ) Civilizations
547	VMS	334	ROMAN SPECTACLE	Gladiatorial games, wild beast hunts, elaborately-staged executions of condemned criminals, and chariot racing as some of the most popular forms of public entertainment in the Roman world. The ritual of these entertainments and spectacles, the circumstances of and occasions for their performance, and the form and elaboration of the venues - the amphitheater, the circus, the theater, and the stadium - in which they took place. Visual and literary representations of these spectacles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
585	ARTHIST	258	RENAISSANCE ARCH. IN ITALY	Architecture, design, theory, engineering, construction, and the related arts, 1400-1600. The architectural production of the Italian Renaissance in its historical, cultural, social, and economic context. Contributions of individual masters, including Brunelleschi, Alberti, Bramante, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, Palladio. Emphasis on architecture in Florence and Rome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
585	ARTHIST	258	RENAISSANCE ARCH. IN ITALY	Architecture, design, theory, engineering, construction, and the related arts, 1400-1600. The architectural production of the Italian Renaissance in its historical, cultural, social, and economic context. Contributions of individual masters, including Brunelleschi, Alberti, Bramante, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, Palladio. Emphasis on architecture in Florence and Rome.	(CZ) Civilizations
585	ITALIAN	258	RENAISSANCE ARCH. IN ITALY	Architecture, design, theory, engineering, construction, and the related arts, 1400-1600. The architectural production of the Italian Renaissance in its historical, cultural, social, and economic context. Contributions of individual masters, including Brunelleschi, Alberti, Bramante, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, Palladio. Emphasis on architecture in Florence and Rome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
585	ITALIAN	258	RENAISSANCE ARCH. IN ITALY	Architecture, design, theory, engineering, construction, and the related arts, 1400-1600. The architectural production of the Italian Renaissance in its historical, cultural, social, and economic context. Contributions of individual masters, including Brunelleschi, Alberti, Bramante, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, Palladio. Emphasis on architecture in Florence and Rome.	(CZ) Civilizations
585	MEDREN	227	RENAISSANCE ARCH. IN ITALY	Architecture, design, theory, engineering, construction, and the related arts, 1400-1600. The architectural production of the Italian Renaissance in its historical, cultural, social, and economic context. Contributions of individual masters, including Brunelleschi, Alberti, Bramante, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, Palladio. Emphasis on architecture in Florence and Rome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
585	MEDREN	227	RENAISSANCE ARCH. IN ITALY	Architecture, design, theory, engineering, construction, and the related arts, 1400-1600. The architectural production of the Italian Renaissance in its historical, cultural, social, and economic context. Contributions of individual masters, including Brunelleschi, Alberti, Bramante, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, Palladio. Emphasis on architecture in Florence and Rome.	(CZ) Civilizations
587	ARTHIST	231	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
587	ARTHIST	231	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(R) Research
587	ARTHIST	231	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
587	ARTHIST	231	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
587	ECON	344	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
587	ECON	344	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(R) Research
587	ECON	344	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
587	ECON	344	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
587	VMS	242	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
587	VMS	242	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(R) Research
587	VMS	242	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
587	VMS	242	HISTORY OF ART MARKETS	Analytical survey of emergence of art markets, interactions between market behavior(s), visual/media culture(s). Addresses questions regarding the nature of art markets, the specificity of art markets and the application of economic and historical methodologies, how and where players in local markets throughout the world shape visual culture(s), effective causes for art consumption, taste, fashion throughout ages, and methodological implications of art market research at interface of Economics, Art History, Law and Visual Studies.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
588	ECON	452	ECONOMIC GROWTH	Examination of the enormous differences in living standards across countries, which reflect differences in growth experiences. Course studies both analytical foundations of modern growth theory and the most recent advances in modeling to shed light on old and new questions about such experiences. Not open to students with credit for Economics 352/International Comparative Studies 356. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D and (204D or 208D).	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
588	ECON	452	ECONOMIC GROWTH	Examination of the enormous differences in living standards across countries, which reflect differences in growth experiences. Course studies both analytical foundations of modern growth theory and the most recent advances in modeling to shed light on old and new questions about such experiences. Not open to students with credit for Economics 352/International Comparative Studies 356. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D and (204D or 208D).	(R) Research
588	ECON	452	ECONOMIC GROWTH	Examination of the enormous differences in living standards across countries, which reflect differences in growth experiences. Course studies both analytical foundations of modern growth theory and the most recent advances in modeling to shed light on old and new questions about such experiences. Not open to students with credit for Economics 352/International Comparative Studies 356. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D and (204D or 208D).	(SS) Social Sciences
601	ARTHIST	280	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
601	ARTHIST	280	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
601	ARTHIST	280	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(CZ) Civilizations
601	GSF	281	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
601	GSF	281	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
601	GSF	281	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(CZ) Civilizations
601	ITALIAN	384	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
601	ITALIAN	384	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
601	ITALIAN	384	AVANT-GARDE ART 1900-1945	Major artistic movements and theoretical aims of early modernism: fauvism, cubism, expressionism, futurism, constructivism, suprematism, dada, surrealism, deStijl, Bauhaus, and Neue Sachlichkeit in France, Italy, Germany, America.	(CZ) Civilizations
604	ARTHIST	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
604	ARTHIST	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
604	ARTHIST	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(CZ) Civilizations
604	ARTHIST	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(R) Research
604	VMS	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
604	VMS	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
604	VMS	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(CZ) Civilizations
604	VMS	378	CHINESE BUDDHIST ART	Chinese sculpture, painting, and architecture in relation to Buddhist texts, practice, and ritual from the fourth through the ninth century C.E. Introduction to precedents in Indian and Central Asian Buddhist art. Emphasis on the relationship between Buddhist and non-Buddhist imagery.	(R) Research
965	ARTSVIS	199	DRAWING	Drawing as integrative tool where ideas and processes are explored and expanded through a variety of media. Still life, figure, landscape, architecture. Representation, abstraction, and working from imagination. Through problem solving within a range of projects, development of a visual language, and drawing skills to be applied to conceptual, visual, and technical disciplines. Class open to 1st and 2nd year students only. Students 3rd year and above will need permission # to enroll.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
973	ARTSVIS	205	INTERMEDIATE DRAWING	Allows students to explore their artistic interests and biases through a series of self-directed projects. Both the directness and the flexibility of the medium of drawing are investigated. Prerequisites: Visual Arts 199 and consent of instructor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
973	ARTSVIS	205	INTERMEDIATE DRAWING	Allows students to explore their artistic interests and biases through a series of self-directed projects. Both the directness and the flexibility of the medium of drawing are investigated. Prerequisites: Visual Arts 199 and consent of instructor.	(R) Research
974	ARTSVIS	210	SCULPTURE	Sculptural principles, processes, and issues introduced through lectures, readings, studio assignments, individual projects, and field trips. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
975	ARTSVIS	211	INTERMEDIATE SCULPTURE	Studio practice in sculpture at the intermediate level. Group and individual discussion and critique. Prerequisite: Visual Arts 210 and consent of instructor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
982	ARTSVIS	224	PRINTMAKING: SILKSCREEN	The silkscreen medium and its stencil-making processes including paper stencils, blockouts, crayon, and photographic methods. Students develop a significant body of prints using these techniques. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
982	ARTSVIS	224	PRINTMAKING: SILKSCREEN	The silkscreen medium and its stencil-making processes including paper stencils, blockouts, crayon, and photographic methods. Students develop a significant body of prints using these techniques. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
982	VMS	221	PRINTMAKING: SILKSCREEN	The silkscreen medium and its stencil-making processes including paper stencils, blockouts, crayon, and photographic methods. Students develop a significant body of prints using these techniques. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
982	VMS	221	PRINTMAKING: SILKSCREEN	The silkscreen medium and its stencil-making processes including paper stencils, blockouts, crayon, and photographic methods. Students develop a significant body of prints using these techniques. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
999	ARTSVIS	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of visual practice on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a regular-rank faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
1000	ARTSVIS	492	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of visual practice on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a regular-rank faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
1006	AEROSCI	201	TEAM & LEADERSHIP FUNDAMENTALS	Course focuses on laying the foundation for teams and leadership. Topics include skills that will allow cadets to improve their leadership on a personal level and within a team. The courses will prepare cadets for their field training experience where they will be able to put the concepts learned into practice. The purpose is to instill a leadership mindset and to motivate sophomore students to transition from AFROTC cadet to AFROTC officer candidate. Leadership Laboratory mandatory for AFROTC cadets. Instructor consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
1007	AEROSCI	 301S	LEADING PEOPLE/EFFECTIVE COMM	Course teaches cadets advanced skills and knowledge in management and leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing leadership skills and communication. Cadets have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors. Leadership Laboratory required for AFROTC cadets. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
1007	AEROSCI	 301S	LEADING PEOPLE/EFFECTIVE COMM	Course teaches cadets advanced skills and knowledge in management and leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing leadership skills and communication. Cadets have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors. Leadership Laboratory required for AFROTC cadets. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
1010	AEROSCI	 401S	NATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS	Course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers in American society. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. The final semester provides information that will prepare the cadets for Active Duty. Leadership Laboratory mandatory for AFROTC cadets. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
1010	AEROSCI	 401S	NATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS	Course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers in American society. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. The final semester provides information that will prepare the cadets for Active Duty. Leadership Laboratory mandatory for AFROTC cadets. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
1315	EVANTH	220	HUMAN EVOLUTION	Evolutionary biology of the hominidae. Anatomical and behavioral adaptations and phylogeny of fossils and living primates including Homo sapiens. Prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or equivalent.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1318	EVANTH	 334L	HUMAN OSTEOLOGY	An introduction to the basics of human osteological analysis. Identification and siding of all the bones of the human body and the major osteological landmarks on each bone; basics of bone histology, development and growth; and fundamentals of anthropological analysis of human skeletal remains (archeological treatment of burials; determination of gender, populational affinities, stature; paleopathological analysis; medicolegal applications). Prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or Biology 202L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1322	EVANTH	253	PRIMATE ECOLOGY	Ecological theory with an emphasis on primates. Primate diversity and biogeography, concept of the niche; dietary specializations, habitat use, predator-prey interactions, plant-animal interactions, community ecology, human ecology; methods used in primate ecology; the role of ecology in conservation. Periodic labs (held during lecture hour) include methods used to characterize forests, tests of niche differentiation and morphological adaptations to different habitats. Prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or Biology 202L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1322	EVANTH	253	PRIMATE ECOLOGY	Ecological theory with an emphasis on primates. Primate diversity and biogeography, concept of the niche; dietary specializations, habitat use, predator-prey interactions, plant-animal interactions, community ecology, human ecology; methods used in primate ecology; the role of ecology in conservation. Periodic labs (held during lecture hour) include methods used to characterize forests, tests of niche differentiation and morphological adaptations to different habitats. Prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or Biology 202L.	(R) Research
1324	EVANTH	 344L	PRIMATE FIELD BIOLOGY	Survey of field methods used to document primate behavior. Laboratory includes observations of free-ranging and captive primates at the Duke Lemur Center. Focus on the scientific process and writing of formal research papers. Prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or Biology 202L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1324	EVANTH	 344L	PRIMATE FIELD BIOLOGY	Survey of field methods used to document primate behavior. Laboratory includes observations of free-ranging and captive primates at the Duke Lemur Center. Focus on the scientific process and writing of formal research papers. Prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or Biology 202L.	(R) Research
1324	EVANTH	 344L	PRIMATE FIELD BIOLOGY	Survey of field methods used to document primate behavior. Laboratory includes observations of free-ranging and captive primates at the Duke Lemur Center. Focus on the scientific process and writing of formal research papers. Prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or Biology 202L.	(W) Writing
1331	EVANTH	 390S	CURRENT TOPICS EVOL ANTH	Same as Evolutionary Anthropology 390 except in seminar format.	Seminar
1331	EVANTH	 390S	CURRENT TOPICS EVOL ANTH	Same as Evolutionary Anthropology 390 except in seminar format.	Topics Course
1338	EVANTH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research under the supervision of a faculty member resulting in a substantive paper or written report. Projects typically include background research, formulation of hypotheses and predictions, data collection, data analysis and interpretation of results. Area of study must be connected to discipline of Evolutionary Anthropology. Open to qualified students, who, before being given permission to register, must submit to the faculty advisor a written proposal outlining the area of study and listing the goals and meeting schedule. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
1338	EVANTH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research under the supervision of a faculty member resulting in a substantive paper or written report. Projects typically include background research, formulation of hypotheses and predictions, data collection, data analysis and interpretation of results. Area of study must be connected to discipline of Evolutionary Anthropology. Open to qualified students, who, before being given permission to register, must submit to the faculty advisor a written proposal outlining the area of study and listing the goals and meeting schedule. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
1459	BIOLOGY	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
1459	BIOLOGY	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1459	BIOLOGY	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
1459	BIOLOGY	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(W) Writing
1459	ENVIRON	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
1459	ENVIRON	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1459	ENVIRON	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
1459	ENVIRON	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(W) Writing
1459	GLHLTH	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
1459	GLHLTH	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1459	GLHLTH	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
1459	GLHLTH	153	CLIMATE, COFFEE & CORONAVIRUS	This course explores interactions between organisms and their environments that impact human health. We will examine the effects of climate change and human population growth on our food supply, water availability, the spread of disease, and ecosystem services. Case studies will be used to illustrate the scientific process, to evaluate supporting evidence, and to investigate ethical issues. For nonmajors. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209-1 or Biology 209S-1.	(W) Writing
1461	BIOLOGY	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
1461	BIOLOGY	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
1477	BIOLOGY	 202L	GENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Introduction to principles transmission genetics and evolution. Includes Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance, quantitative genetics, genetic mapping, evidence for evolution, natural selection, genetic drift, kin selection, speciation, molecular evolution, phylogenetic analysis. Relevance to human family and social structure, evolution of infectious disease, human hereditary disorders, social implications of genetic knowledge. Not open to students who have taken or are currently enrolled in Biology 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1477	BIOLOGY	 202L	GENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Introduction to principles transmission genetics and evolution. Includes Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance, quantitative genetics, genetic mapping, evidence for evolution, natural selection, genetic drift, kin selection, speciation, molecular evolution, phylogenetic analysis. Relevance to human family and social structure, evolution of infectious disease, human hereditary disorders, social implications of genetic knowledge. Not open to students who have taken or are currently enrolled in Biology 203L.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
1478	BIOLOGY	 212L	GENERAL MICROBIOLOGY	Classical and modern approaches to the study of microorganisms and their roles/applications in everyday life, medicine, research, and the environment. Microbial cell structure, function, growth, genetics, metabolism, evolution, and ecology. Study of disease, infection, and immunology. Introduction to virology. Recommended for many pre-health programs. Recommended prerequisite: one course in a biological science. Not open to students who have taken Biology 212.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1494	BIOLOGY	220	CELL BIOLOGY	The role of genes and proteins in mediating basic cellular processes. Topics include: structure and function of cellular membranes and organelles; protein targeting and transport; signal transduction; role of the cytoskeleton in cell shape and motility; function of the immune system; genetic regulation of cell growth/division and the relationship to cancer. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1495	BIOLOGY	 213D	CELL SIGNALING AND DISEASES	During the past several decades, exploration in basic research has yielded extensive knowledge about the numerous and intricate signaling processes involved in the development and maintenance of a functional organism. In order to demonstrate the importance and processes of cellular communication, this course will focus on cell signaling mechanisms and diseases resulting from their malfunction, such as cancer, stroke, and neuron degeneration (including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). Students will be exposed to current literature and cutting edge knowledge. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
1543	BIOLOGY	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to all qualified students with consent of supervising instructor and director of undergraduate studies. May be repeated. Continued in Biology 493.	(R) Research
1543	BIOLOGY	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to all qualified students with consent of supervising instructor and director of undergraduate studies. May be repeated. Continued in Biology 493.	Independent Study
1623	BIOLOGY	 490S	SEMINAR (TOPICS)	Seminar on a selected topic.  Offerings vary each semester.	Seminar
1623	BIOLOGY	 490S	SEMINAR (TOPICS)	Seminar on a selected topic.  Offerings vary each semester.	Topics Course
1650	BME	493	PROJECTS IN BIOMED ENG	For juniors and seniors who express a desire for such work and who have shown aptitude for research in one area of biomedical engineering. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
1651	BME	494	PROJECTS IN BIOMED ENG	For juniors or seniors who express a desire for such work and who have shown aptitude for research in one area of biomedical engineering. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
1854	CULANTH	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
1854	CULANTH	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
1860	CULANTH	101	INTRO TO CULTURAL ANTHRO	Theoretical approaches to analyzing cultural beliefs and practices cross-culturally; application of specific approaches to case material from present and/or past cultures.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
1860	CULANTH	101	INTRO TO CULTURAL ANTHRO	Theoretical approaches to analyzing cultural beliefs and practices cross-culturally; application of specific approaches to case material from present and/or past cultures.	(CZ) Civilizations
1860	CULANTH	101	INTRO TO CULTURAL ANTHRO	Theoretical approaches to analyzing cultural beliefs and practices cross-culturally; application of specific approaches to case material from present and/or past cultures.	(SS) Social Sciences
1860	ICS	101	INTRO TO CULTURAL ANTHRO	Theoretical approaches to analyzing cultural beliefs and practices cross-culturally; application of specific approaches to case material from present and/or past cultures.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
1860	ICS	101	INTRO TO CULTURAL ANTHRO	Theoretical approaches to analyzing cultural beliefs and practices cross-culturally; application of specific approaches to case material from present and/or past cultures.	(CZ) Civilizations
1860	ICS	101	INTRO TO CULTURAL ANTHRO	Theoretical approaches to analyzing cultural beliefs and practices cross-culturally; application of specific approaches to case material from present and/or past cultures.	(SS) Social Sciences
1868	CINE	265	ANTHROPOLOGY AND FILM	The study of feature films and documentaries on issues of colonialism, imperialism, war and peace, and cultural interaction. An introduction to critical film theory and film production in non-Western countries.	(SS) Social Sciences
1868	CULANTH	130	ANTHROPOLOGY AND FILM	The study of feature films and documentaries on issues of colonialism, imperialism, war and peace, and cultural interaction. An introduction to critical film theory and film production in non-Western countries.	(SS) Social Sciences
1868	ICS	104	ANTHROPOLOGY AND FILM	The study of feature films and documentaries on issues of colonialism, imperialism, war and peace, and cultural interaction. An introduction to critical film theory and film production in non-Western countries.	(SS) Social Sciences
1868	VMS	130	ANTHROPOLOGY AND FILM	The study of feature films and documentaries on issues of colonialism, imperialism, war and peace, and cultural interaction. An introduction to critical film theory and film production in non-Western countries.	(SS) Social Sciences
1879	CULANTH	271	GENDER AND CULTURE	Explanation of differing beliefs about gender cross-culturally, by comparison with dominant themes about gender in our own cultural history and contemporary ideological struggles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
1879	CULANTH	271	GENDER AND CULTURE	Explanation of differing beliefs about gender cross-culturally, by comparison with dominant themes about gender in our own cultural history and contemporary ideological struggles.	(SS) Social Sciences
1879	GSF	217	GENDER AND CULTURE	Explanation of differing beliefs about gender cross-culturally, by comparison with dominant themes about gender in our own cultural history and contemporary ideological struggles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
1879	GSF	217	GENDER AND CULTURE	Explanation of differing beliefs about gender cross-culturally, by comparison with dominant themes about gender in our own cultural history and contemporary ideological struggles.	(SS) Social Sciences
1879	ICS	203	GENDER AND CULTURE	Explanation of differing beliefs about gender cross-culturally, by comparison with dominant themes about gender in our own cultural history and contemporary ideological struggles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
1879	ICS	203	GENDER AND CULTURE	Explanation of differing beliefs about gender cross-culturally, by comparison with dominant themes about gender in our own cultural history and contemporary ideological struggles.	(SS) Social Sciences
1883	CULANTH	210	GLOBAL CULTURE	Globalization examined through some of its dominant cultural formsthe marketing of pop music, the globalization of TV culture, the spread of markets and commodities, the export of political ideologies. Special focus given to the way in which these forms both affect and are transformed by local cultures in Africa, South Asia, East Asia, and Latin America.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
1883	CULANTH	210	GLOBAL CULTURE	Globalization examined through some of its dominant cultural formsthe marketing of pop music, the globalization of TV culture, the spread of markets and commodities, the export of political ideologies. Special focus given to the way in which these forms both affect and are transformed by local cultures in Africa, South Asia, East Asia, and Latin America.	(SS) Social Sciences
1883	VMS	247	GLOBAL CULTURE	Globalization examined through some of its dominant cultural formsthe marketing of pop music, the globalization of TV culture, the spread of markets and commodities, the export of political ideologies. Special focus given to the way in which these forms both affect and are transformed by local cultures in Africa, South Asia, East Asia, and Latin America.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
1883	VMS	247	GLOBAL CULTURE	Globalization examined through some of its dominant cultural formsthe marketing of pop music, the globalization of TV culture, the spread of markets and commodities, the export of political ideologies. Special focus given to the way in which these forms both affect and are transformed by local cultures in Africa, South Asia, East Asia, and Latin America.	(SS) Social Sciences
1947	CULANTH	 290S	CURRENT ISSUES (TOPICS)	Same as Cultural Anthropology 290 except instruction is provided in seminar format.	Seminar
1947	CULANTH	 290S	CURRENT ISSUES (TOPICS)	Same as Cultural Anthropology 290 except instruction is provided in seminar format.	Topics Course
1960	CULANTH	 498S	SENIOR DISTINCTION SEMINAR	No credit for Cultural Anthropology 498S without satisfactory completion of Cultural Anthropology 499S. Students who wish to exit the Senior Seminar Distinction Program sequence after completion of 498S must petition the course instructor, their advisor, and the director of undergraduate studies. The student will be given course credit and a final grade provided the instructor, their advisor, and the director of undergraduate studies determine the student has done adequate work. Consent of director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
1960	CULANTH	 498S	SENIOR DISTINCTION SEMINAR	No credit for Cultural Anthropology 498S without satisfactory completion of Cultural Anthropology 499S. Students who wish to exit the Senior Seminar Distinction Program sequence after completion of 498S must petition the course instructor, their advisor, and the director of undergraduate studies. The student will be given course credit and a final grade provided the instructor, their advisor, and the director of undergraduate studies determine the student has done adequate work. Consent of director of undergraduate studies required.	Seminar
2046	CELLBIO	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
2046	CELLBIO	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
2127	CEE	311	ARCH ENGINEERING I	Analysis of the building through the study of its subsystems (enclosure, space, structural, environmental-control). Building materials and their principal uses in the enclosure and structural subsystems. Computer aided design. Field trips. Prerequisite: junior or senior standing, consent of instructor for nonengineering students.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2127	CEE	311	ARCH ENGINEERING I	Analysis of the building through the study of its subsystems (enclosure, space, structural, environmental-control). Building materials and their principal uses in the enclosure and structural subsystems. Computer aided design. Field trips. Prerequisite: junior or senior standing, consent of instructor for nonengineering students.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
2130	CEE	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY IN CEE	Study arranged on a special topic by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2315	CHEM	91	CHEM/TECHNOL/SOCIETY	Science, the scientific method, and background topics from chemistry, biochemistry, and environmental chemistry that enable citizens to utilize the inductive-deductive methodology of science to better evaluate the potential benefits and risks associated with selected existing and proposed technologies. Intended primarily for non-science majors. Normally not open to students who have credit for, or are enrolled in, Chemistry 20, 21, or 101DL.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2315	CHEM	91	CHEM/TECHNOL/SOCIETY	Science, the scientific method, and background topics from chemistry, biochemistry, and environmental chemistry that enable citizens to utilize the inductive-deductive methodology of science to better evaluate the potential benefits and risks associated with selected existing and proposed technologies. Intended primarily for non-science majors. Normally not open to students who have credit for, or are enrolled in, Chemistry 20, 21, or 101DL.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
2327	CHEM	401	ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY	Fundamentals of qualitative and quantitative measurement with emphasis on chemometrics, quantitative spectrometry, electrochemical methods, and common separation techniques. Corequisite: Chemistry 401L. Prerequisite: Chemistry 301L or 310L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2327	CHEM	401	ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY	Fundamentals of qualitative and quantitative measurement with emphasis on chemometrics, quantitative spectrometry, electrochemical methods, and common separation techniques. Corequisite: Chemistry 401L. Prerequisite: Chemistry 301L or 310L.	Course has lab
2331	CHEM	 401L	ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY LAB	Laboratory experiments designed to accompany Chemistry 401. Corequisite: Chemistry 401.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2331	CHEM	 401L	ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY LAB	Laboratory experiments designed to accompany Chemistry 401. Corequisite: Chemistry 401.	Course has a lecture
2333	CHEM	 201DL	ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I	The structures and reactions of the compounds of carbon and the impact of selected organic compounds on society. Laboratory: techniques of separation, organic reactions and preparations, and systematic identification of compounds by their spectral and chemical properties. Prerequisite: Chemistry 101DL, or 110DL, or 21.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2333	CHEM	 201DL	ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I	The structures and reactions of the compounds of carbon and the impact of selected organic compounds on society. Laboratory: techniques of separation, organic reactions and preparations, and systematic identification of compounds by their spectral and chemical properties. Prerequisite: Chemistry 101DL, or 110DL, or 21.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
2338	CHEM	 202D	ORGANIC CHEMISTRY II	Continuation of Chemistry 201DL. Recommended prerequisite: Chemistry 201DL.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2338	CHEM	 202D	ORGANIC CHEMISTRY II	Continuation of Chemistry 201DL. Recommended prerequisite: Chemistry 201DL.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
2350	CHEM	301	ELEMENTS PHYSICAL CHEM	Survey of physical chemistry including quantum chemistry, molecular structure, molecular spectroscopy, thermodynamics, and kinetics. Prerequisites: Chemistry 210DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 101DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 110DL; or Chemistry 21; Mathematics 112L, and Physics 142L or 152L or 162L or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2350	CHEM	301	ELEMENTS PHYSICAL CHEM	Survey of physical chemistry including quantum chemistry, molecular structure, molecular spectroscopy, thermodynamics, and kinetics. Prerequisites: Chemistry 210DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 101DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 110DL; or Chemistry 21; Mathematics 112L, and Physics 142L or 152L or 162L or consent of instructor.	Course has lab
2358	CHEM	310	PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY I	Fundamentals of physical chemistry. Emphasizes quantum chemistry, molecular structure, and molecular spectroscopy. Chemistry 310L should be taken concurrently with Chemistry 310. Prerequisites: Chemistry 210DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 101DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 110DL; or Chemistry 21; Mathematics 212, Physics 142L, 152L, or 162L or consent of the instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2358	CHEM	310	PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY I	Fundamentals of physical chemistry. Emphasizes quantum chemistry, molecular structure, and molecular spectroscopy. Chemistry 310L should be taken concurrently with Chemistry 310. Prerequisites: Chemistry 210DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 101DL; or Chemistry 20 plus 110DL; or Chemistry 21; Mathematics 212, Physics 142L, 152L, or 162L or consent of the instructor.	Course has lab
2360	CHEM	 310L	PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY I LAB	Laboratory experiments designed to accompany Chemistry 310. Includes instruction and practice in writing the laboratory notebook and formal laboratory reports. Prerequisite: (or corequisite) Chemistry 310.	(NS) Natural Sciences
2360	CHEM	 310L	PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY I LAB	Laboratory experiments designed to accompany Chemistry 310. Includes instruction and practice in writing the laboratory notebook and formal laboratory reports. Prerequisite: (or corequisite) Chemistry 310.	Course has a lecture
2366	CHEM	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Chemistry 393. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
2366	CHEM	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Chemistry 393. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2367	CHEM	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Chemistry 393. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
2367	CHEM	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Chemistry 393. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2368	CHEM	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Chemistry 393. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
2368	CHEM	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Chemistry 393. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2404	CHINESE	101	FIRST-YEAR CHINESE I	First semester of a two-semester sequence. Designed for students with little or no knowledge of the Chinese language. Aim at developing basic communicative proficiency in Mandarin Chinese with equal attention to aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing skills. Learn some Chinese cultural facts and social-cultural etiquette when developing basic communicative competence in Chinese. Recognize and write approximately 250-300 characters by the end of the semester.	(FL) Foreign Language
2406	CHINESE	102	FIRST-YEAR CHINESE II	Continuation of Chinese 101. Designed for students with little knowledge of the Chinese language. Focus on developing basic communicative proficiency in Mandarin Chinese with equal attention to aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing skills. Learn some Chinese cultural facts and social-cultural etiquette when developing basic communicative competence in Chinese. Recognize and write approximately 300 characters by the end of the semester.	(FL) Foreign Language
2413	CHINESE	131	FRST YR CHN: BIL LEARNERS	Designed for students who were raised in a Chinese-speaking environment and who can converse about personal information or daily topics but have little or no reading and writing skills in Mandarin Chinese. Gain knowledge of the etymologies of Chinese characters and writing system. Substantial work on the development of reading and writing competencies in Chinese while continuing to improve aural understanding and speaking competency. Topics focus on issues concerning the aspects of bilingual and bicultural experiences specifically addressed for Chinese heritage learners.	(FL) Foreign Language
2414	CHINESE	232	INTERM CHN: BIL LEARNERS	Continuation of Chinese 131. Further development of reading and writing fluency and competencies through studying a range of topics consisting of more complex vocabulary and grammatical structures. Content covering necessary understanding of language and cultural heritage concerning Chinese customs, civilization, and history. Prerequisite: Chinese 131 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
2415	CHINESE	203	INTERMEDIATE CHINESE	Second-year level Mandarin Chinese. Prerequisite: Chinese 102 or its equivalent. Not open to students who have completed Chinese 232 or 242. Aiming to enhance students' abilities in conversing on personal topics in informal situations, in reading and writing narrative and descriptive texts, and in analyzing the structure of Chinese language.	(FL) Foreign Language
2416	CHINESE	204	INTERMEDIATE CHINESE	Continuation of Chinese 203. A service-learning/community-engaged labeled course. Project-based service with local/global community partners. Community-engaged course activities involving linguistic and cultural exchange. Prerequisite: Chinese 203 or its equivalent. Not open to students who have completed Chinese 232 or 242. Continued work on consolidating the language.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2416	CHINESE	204	INTERMEDIATE CHINESE	Continuation of Chinese 203. A service-learning/community-engaged labeled course. Project-based service with local/global community partners. Community-engaged course activities involving linguistic and cultural exchange. Prerequisite: Chinese 203 or its equivalent. Not open to students who have completed Chinese 232 or 242. Continued work on consolidating the language.	(CZ) Civilizations
2416	CHINESE	204	INTERMEDIATE CHINESE	Continuation of Chinese 203. A service-learning/community-engaged labeled course. Project-based service with local/global community partners. Community-engaged course activities involving linguistic and cultural exchange. Prerequisite: Chinese 203 or its equivalent. Not open to students who have completed Chinese 232 or 242. Continued work on consolidating the language.	(FL) Foreign Language
2424	CHINESE	 305D	PRE-ADVANCED CHINESE	Designed for Chinese as a foreign/second language. Follows Chinese 204 or 224A as part of the language sequence. Increases students' knowledge of more complex forms of the Chinese vocabulary system and competencies in speaking, aural comprehension, reading, and writing. Exposure to a speech variety appropriate to formal and informal speech situations. Materials drawn from newspaper articles, essays, and other readings concerning social and cultural issues in contemporary Chinese society. Emphasis on the active use of the language for communication in written and spoken forms. Recommended prerequisite: Chinese 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2424	CHINESE	 305D	PRE-ADVANCED CHINESE	Designed for Chinese as a foreign/second language. Follows Chinese 204 or 224A as part of the language sequence. Increases students' knowledge of more complex forms of the Chinese vocabulary system and competencies in speaking, aural comprehension, reading, and writing. Exposure to a speech variety appropriate to formal and informal speech situations. Materials drawn from newspaper articles, essays, and other readings concerning social and cultural issues in contemporary Chinese society. Emphasis on the active use of the language for communication in written and spoken forms. Recommended prerequisite: Chinese 204 or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
2424	CHINESE	 305D	PRE-ADVANCED CHINESE	Designed for Chinese as a foreign/second language. Follows Chinese 204 or 224A as part of the language sequence. Increases students' knowledge of more complex forms of the Chinese vocabulary system and competencies in speaking, aural comprehension, reading, and writing. Exposure to a speech variety appropriate to formal and informal speech situations. Materials drawn from newspaper articles, essays, and other readings concerning social and cultural issues in contemporary Chinese society. Emphasis on the active use of the language for communication in written and spoken forms. Recommended prerequisite: Chinese 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
2425	CHINESE	306	ADVANCED CHINESE II	Continuation of Chinese 305. Designed for Chinese as a foreign/second language. Builds knowledge of more sophisticated linguistic forms and learning to differentiate between different types of written and spoken discourse. Development of writing skills in selected formats and genres while continuing to develop correct use of speech patterns and vocabulary and cross-cultural understanding. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, and other readings concerning social and cultural issues in contemporary Chinese society. Prerequisite: Chinese 305 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2425	CHINESE	306	ADVANCED CHINESE II	Continuation of Chinese 305. Designed for Chinese as a foreign/second language. Builds knowledge of more sophisticated linguistic forms and learning to differentiate between different types of written and spoken discourse. Development of writing skills in selected formats and genres while continuing to develop correct use of speech patterns and vocabulary and cross-cultural understanding. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, and other readings concerning social and cultural issues in contemporary Chinese society. Prerequisite: Chinese 305 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2425	CHINESE	306	ADVANCED CHINESE II	Continuation of Chinese 305. Designed for Chinese as a foreign/second language. Builds knowledge of more sophisticated linguistic forms and learning to differentiate between different types of written and spoken discourse. Development of writing skills in selected formats and genres while continuing to develop correct use of speech patterns and vocabulary and cross-cultural understanding. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, and other readings concerning social and cultural issues in contemporary Chinese society. Prerequisite: Chinese 305 or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
2425	CHINESE	306	ADVANCED CHINESE II	Continuation of Chinese 305. Designed for Chinese as a foreign/second language. Builds knowledge of more sophisticated linguistic forms and learning to differentiate between different types of written and spoken discourse. Development of writing skills in selected formats and genres while continuing to develop correct use of speech patterns and vocabulary and cross-cultural understanding. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, and other readings concerning social and cultural issues in contemporary Chinese society. Prerequisite: Chinese 305 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
2432	CHINESE	333	ADV CHN: BIL LEARNERS	Continuation of Chinese 232, Literacy in Chinese. Designed for Chinese as a second language. Practice in formal and informal speech and discourse in speaking and writing. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, TV and radio concerning issues in contemporary China. Develops fluency and skills in writing essays and short stories while continuing to advance understanding of heritage culture and aural/oral proficiency. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement including direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: Chinese 232 or equivalent proficiency.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2432	CHINESE	333	ADV CHN: BIL LEARNERS	Continuation of Chinese 232, Literacy in Chinese. Designed for Chinese as a second language. Practice in formal and informal speech and discourse in speaking and writing. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, TV and radio concerning issues in contemporary China. Develops fluency and skills in writing essays and short stories while continuing to advance understanding of heritage culture and aural/oral proficiency. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement including direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: Chinese 232 or equivalent proficiency.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2432	CHINESE	333	ADV CHN: BIL LEARNERS	Continuation of Chinese 232, Literacy in Chinese. Designed for Chinese as a second language. Practice in formal and informal speech and discourse in speaking and writing. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, TV and radio concerning issues in contemporary China. Develops fluency and skills in writing essays and short stories while continuing to advance understanding of heritage culture and aural/oral proficiency. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement including direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: Chinese 232 or equivalent proficiency.	(CZ) Civilizations
2432	CHINESE	333	ADV CHN: BIL LEARNERS	Continuation of Chinese 232, Literacy in Chinese. Designed for Chinese as a second language. Practice in formal and informal speech and discourse in speaking and writing. Content drawn from newspaper articles, essays, TV and radio concerning issues in contemporary China. Develops fluency and skills in writing essays and short stories while continuing to advance understanding of heritage culture and aural/oral proficiency. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement including direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: Chinese 232 or equivalent proficiency.	(FL) Foreign Language
2439	LIT	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN LITERATURE	Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
2439	LIT	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN LITERATURE	Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
2598	COMPSCI	201	DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS	Analysis, use, and design of data structures and algorithms using an object-oriented language like Java to solve computational problems. Emphasis on abstraction including interfaces and abstract data types for lists, trees, sets, tables/maps, and graphs. Implementation and evaluation of programming techniques including recursion. Intuitive and rigorous analysis of algorithms. Prerequisite: Computer Science 101, 102, or 116, or Engineering 103L, or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
2606	COMPSCI	310	INTRO TO OPERATING SYSTM	Basic concepts and principles of multiprogrammed operating systems. Processes, interprocess communication, CPU scheduling, mutual exclusion, deadlocks, memory management, I/O devices, file systems, protection mechanisms. Also taught as Electrical and Computer Engineering 353. Prerequisites: Computer Science 201; and either of Computer Science 210D, Computer Science 250D or Electrical and Computer Engineering 250D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
2606	ECE	353	INTRO TO OPERATING SYSTM	Basic concepts and principles of multiprogrammed operating systems. Processes, interprocess communication, CPU scheduling, mutual exclusion, deadlocks, memory management, I/O devices, file systems, protection mechanisms. Also taught as Electrical and Computer Engineering 353. Prerequisites: Computer Science 201; and either of Computer Science 210D, Computer Science 250D or Electrical and Computer Engineering 250D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
2614	COMPSCI	330	DESIGN/ANALY ALGORITHMS	Design and analysis of efficient algorithms including sorting, searching, dynamic programming, graph algorithms, fast multiplication, and others; nondeterministic algorithms and computationally hard problems. Prerequisites: Computer Science 201 and 230.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
2629	COMPSCI	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper, project, or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
2629	COMPSCI	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper, project, or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2631	COMPSCI	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual work in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper, project, or written report covering a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2634	COMPSCI	290	TOPICS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE	Topics from various areas of computer science, changing each year. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201 or equivalent.	Topics Course
2728	CLST	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics in classical literature and/or art and archaeology vary each semester.	Seminar
2728	CLST	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics in classical literature and/or art and archaeology vary each semester.	Topics Course
2730	CLST	283	GREEK HISTORY	The political and intellectual history of the Greeks from earliest times to the death of Alexander the Great. Not open to students who have had, or are taking, Classical Studies 181S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2730	CLST	283	GREEK HISTORY	The political and intellectual history of the Greeks from earliest times to the death of Alexander the Great. Not open to students who have had, or are taking, Classical Studies 181S.	(CZ) Civilizations
2730	HISTORY	230	GREEK HISTORY	The political and intellectual history of the Greeks from earliest times to the death of Alexander the Great. Not open to students who have had, or are taking, Classical Studies 181S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2730	HISTORY	230	GREEK HISTORY	The political and intellectual history of the Greeks from earliest times to the death of Alexander the Great. Not open to students who have had, or are taking, Classical Studies 181S.	(CZ) Civilizations
2747	CLST	304	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2747	CLST	304	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2747	CLST	304	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(CZ) Civilizations
2747	THEATRST	227	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2747	THEATRST	227	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2747	THEATRST	227	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(CZ) Civilizations
2747	VMS	240	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2747	VMS	240	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2747	VMS	240	DRAMA OF ANCIENT ROME	Introduction to the drama and performance cultures of ancient Rome. Students read in translation canonical comedies (Plautus, Terence) as well as tragedies (Seneca) while also studying related genres such as mime, historical drama, and other hybrid forms. Central topics include: conventions of theatrical performance from Republic to Empire, social and political contexts of Roman drama, ancient dramaturgy and theatrical spaces, related performance cultures including the gladiatorial arena, modern reception of Roman drama. No previous knowledge of Classical Studies required or presumed; this course is open to all students interested in drama, literature, and the history of Rome.	(CZ) Civilizations
2789	ARTHIST	310	MUSEUM PRACTICUM I	Museum work in the context of art-historical, ethical, philosophical, and economic issues related to the presentation of art in museums. Under direction of museum staff students engage in practicum to gain first-hand knowledge of museum operations. Museum Practicum requires weekly meeting plus five hours per week working in assigned department, additional readings and assignments. Production of exhibition reviews, sample exhibition writing, blog posts, and final presentations.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2800	CLST	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2802	CLST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or project containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors and seniors; for seniors, the paper or project may partially fulfill the requirements for graduation with distinction. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
2802	CLST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or project containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors and seniors; for seniors, the paper or project may partially fulfill the requirements for graduation with distinction. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2842	CULANTH	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2842	CULANTH	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CZ) Civilizations
2842	CULANTH	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(SS) Social Sciences
2842	CULANTH	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(W) Writing
2842	GSF	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2842	GSF	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CZ) Civilizations
2842	GSF	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(SS) Social Sciences
2842	GSF	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(W) Writing
2842	HISTORY	103	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2842	HISTORY	103	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CZ) Civilizations
2842	HISTORY	103	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(SS) Social Sciences
2842	HISTORY	103	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(W) Writing
2842	ICS	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2842	ICS	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CZ) Civilizations
2842	ICS	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(SS) Social Sciences
2842	ICS	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(W) Writing
2842	POLSCI	110	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2842	POLSCI	110	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CZ) Civilizations
2842	POLSCI	110	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(SS) Social Sciences
2842	POLSCI	110	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(W) Writing
2842	SOCIOL	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
2842	SOCIOL	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(CZ) Civilizations
2842	SOCIOL	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(SS) Social Sciences
2842	SOCIOL	195	CRITICAL APPR GLOBAL ISSUES	Introduction to critical transnational studies through several disciplinary approaches. Examines capitalism and neo-liberal globalization and their relationships to culture, politics, economics, and other social forms and outcomes; considers transnationalism 'from below'; addresses linear and Western-centric thinking about progress and modernity; focuses a historical lens on political discourses, institutions, and projects to understand them contextually; demonstrates how cultures and identities are dynamically constituted in interaction with historical, material, political, and situational factors; considers how different inequalities and contestations inflect most social formations.	(W) Writing
2847	ICS	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic product. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
2962	DANCE	280	INDIVID DAN PROG: SP TOP	An individualized program of study of dance technique from existing class sessions. Consent of instructor required	Tutorial
2963	DANCE	412	PERFORMANCE: MODERN	The study of choreography and performance through participation in the mounting of a dance work from inception through rehearsal to performance. Separate enrollment in dance technique is encouraged. Consent of department required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
2994	DANCE	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Content to be determined each semester.	Seminar
2994	DANCE	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Content to be determined each semester.	Topics Course
3033	THEATRST	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
3033	THEATRST	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
3074	DANCE	 125S	AMERICAN MUSICALS	What is it about musicals that made them a uniquely American theatrical form? In this course, we will investigate how musicals represent what it means to be American. Musical theatre history is American history, indebted to and reflective of critical histories of appropriation, capitalism, immigration, and popular entertainment. Musicals seduce us in song and dance; it is easy to ignore the substance beneath the sequins. We will study the texts and historical contexts of musicals over the past century, from Shuffle Along, and Oklahoma!, to A Chorus Line, and Hamilton. Musicals reveal shifting notions of what 'American' means as they stage ability, ethnicity, gender, race, and sexuality.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3074	DANCE	 125S	AMERICAN MUSICALS	What is it about musicals that made them a uniquely American theatrical form? In this course, we will investigate how musicals represent what it means to be American. Musical theatre history is American history, indebted to and reflective of critical histories of appropriation, capitalism, immigration, and popular entertainment. Musicals seduce us in song and dance; it is easy to ignore the substance beneath the sequins. We will study the texts and historical contexts of musicals over the past century, from Shuffle Along, and Oklahoma!, to A Chorus Line, and Hamilton. Musicals reveal shifting notions of what 'American' means as they stage ability, ethnicity, gender, race, and sexuality.	Seminar
3074	MUSIC	 243S	AMERICAN MUSICALS	What is it about musicals that made them a uniquely American theatrical form? In this course, we will investigate how musicals represent what it means to be American. Musical theatre history is American history, indebted to and reflective of critical histories of appropriation, capitalism, immigration, and popular entertainment. Musicals seduce us in song and dance; it is easy to ignore the substance beneath the sequins. We will study the texts and historical contexts of musicals over the past century, from Shuffle Along, and Oklahoma!, to A Chorus Line, and Hamilton. Musicals reveal shifting notions of what 'American' means as they stage ability, ethnicity, gender, race, and sexuality.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3074	MUSIC	 243S	AMERICAN MUSICALS	What is it about musicals that made them a uniquely American theatrical form? In this course, we will investigate how musicals represent what it means to be American. Musical theatre history is American history, indebted to and reflective of critical histories of appropriation, capitalism, immigration, and popular entertainment. Musicals seduce us in song and dance; it is easy to ignore the substance beneath the sequins. We will study the texts and historical contexts of musicals over the past century, from Shuffle Along, and Oklahoma!, to A Chorus Line, and Hamilton. Musicals reveal shifting notions of what 'American' means as they stage ability, ethnicity, gender, race, and sexuality.	Seminar
3074	THEATRST	 125S	AMERICAN MUSICALS	What is it about musicals that made them a uniquely American theatrical form? In this course, we will investigate how musicals represent what it means to be American. Musical theatre history is American history, indebted to and reflective of critical histories of appropriation, capitalism, immigration, and popular entertainment. Musicals seduce us in song and dance; it is easy to ignore the substance beneath the sequins. We will study the texts and historical contexts of musicals over the past century, from Shuffle Along, and Oklahoma!, to A Chorus Line, and Hamilton. Musicals reveal shifting notions of what 'American' means as they stage ability, ethnicity, gender, race, and sexuality.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3074	THEATRST	 125S	AMERICAN MUSICALS	What is it about musicals that made them a uniquely American theatrical form? In this course, we will investigate how musicals represent what it means to be American. Musical theatre history is American history, indebted to and reflective of critical histories of appropriation, capitalism, immigration, and popular entertainment. Musicals seduce us in song and dance; it is easy to ignore the substance beneath the sequins. We will study the texts and historical contexts of musicals over the past century, from Shuffle Along, and Oklahoma!, to A Chorus Line, and Hamilton. Musicals reveal shifting notions of what 'American' means as they stage ability, ethnicity, gender, race, and sexuality.	Seminar
3094	CINE	 305S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3094	CINE	 305S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(W) Writing
3094	CINE	 305S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	Seminar
3094	ENGLISH	 317S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3094	ENGLISH	 317S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(W) Writing
3094	ENGLISH	 317S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	Seminar
3094	THEATRST	 273S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3094	THEATRST	 273S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(W) Writing
3094	THEATRST	 273S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	Seminar
3094	VMS	 387S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3094	VMS	 387S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	(W) Writing
3094	VMS	 387S	SCREENWRITING	Advanced writing projects for feature film. Study of existing scripts and videos, application of techniques.	Seminar
3103	THEATRST	 145S	ACTING	The fundamentals of acting realism explored through exercises, scene study, and text analysis. Introduction to voice and movement training for the actor. Theory and text analysis studied in their historical context as well as their contemporary relevance.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3103	THEATRST	 145S	ACTING	The fundamentals of acting realism explored through exercises, scene study, and text analysis. Introduction to voice and movement training for the actor. Theory and text analysis studied in their historical context as well as their contemporary relevance.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3103	THEATRST	 145S	ACTING	The fundamentals of acting realism explored through exercises, scene study, and text analysis. Introduction to voice and movement training for the actor. Theory and text analysis studied in their historical context as well as their contemporary relevance.	Seminar
3147	ARTSVIS	 233S	COSTUME DESIGN	This course is designed to introduce students to the essentials of costume design and rendering. Emphasis will be placed on historical research, applying conceptual thought, and script and character analysis. Students will also explore and deepen visual art skills using figure drawing and various media as communication tools. No previous art or theatre experience necessary.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3147	ARTSVIS	 233S	COSTUME DESIGN	This course is designed to introduce students to the essentials of costume design and rendering. Emphasis will be placed on historical research, applying conceptual thought, and script and character analysis. Students will also explore and deepen visual art skills using figure drawing and various media as communication tools. No previous art or theatre experience necessary.	(R) Research
3147	ARTSVIS	 233S	COSTUME DESIGN	This course is designed to introduce students to the essentials of costume design and rendering. Emphasis will be placed on historical research, applying conceptual thought, and script and character analysis. Students will also explore and deepen visual art skills using figure drawing and various media as communication tools. No previous art or theatre experience necessary.	Seminar
3147	THEATRST	 261S	COSTUME DESIGN	This course is designed to introduce students to the essentials of costume design and rendering. Emphasis will be placed on historical research, applying conceptual thought, and script and character analysis. Students will also explore and deepen visual art skills using figure drawing and various media as communication tools. No previous art or theatre experience necessary.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3147	THEATRST	 261S	COSTUME DESIGN	This course is designed to introduce students to the essentials of costume design and rendering. Emphasis will be placed on historical research, applying conceptual thought, and script and character analysis. Students will also explore and deepen visual art skills using figure drawing and various media as communication tools. No previous art or theatre experience necessary.	(R) Research
3147	THEATRST	 261S	COSTUME DESIGN	This course is designed to introduce students to the essentials of costume design and rendering. Emphasis will be placed on historical research, applying conceptual thought, and script and character analysis. Students will also explore and deepen visual art skills using figure drawing and various media as communication tools. No previous art or theatre experience necessary.	Seminar
3189	THEATRST	 493-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
3189	THEATRST	 493-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3190	THEATRST	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic or artistic product. Consent of instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3190	THEATRST	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic or artistic product. Consent of instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3273	ECON	174	FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING	Introductory course in financial accounting. How and why information is created and communicated. Purposes of financial accounting. Bookkeeping for basic business transactions that map into the statements. Analyze corporate reports. Interpret key financial information. Course is designed for students with little or no background in accounting. Does not count for economics major or minor requirements.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
3273	ECON	174	FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING	Introductory course in financial accounting. How and why information is created and communicated. Purposes of financial accounting. Bookkeeping for basic business transactions that map into the statements. Analyze corporate reports. Interpret key financial information. Course is designed for students with little or no background in accounting. Does not count for economics major or minor requirements.	(SS) Social Sciences
3275	ECON	 190FS	FOCUS PROGRAM TOPICS IN ECON	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
3275	ECON	 190FS	FOCUS PROGRAM TOPICS IN ECON	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
3299	ECON	345	URBAN ECONOMICS	Intro to urban econ focusing on location of economic activity in geographic space and implications for society. Course uses theoretical modeling, empirical analysis, and historical accounts to explore questions: Why cities exist, form where they do, and grow/decline? How economic activity is organized. Spatial patterns of work, housing, transportation. Environmental consequences of urban density, suburban sprawl, polluting firms. Determinants of price of land, house values, rents. Household sorting across neighborhoods. Causes/consequences of racial segregation, neighborhood gentrification, spatial concentration of poverty/wealth, Prerequisite: Economics 201D; Economics 204D recommended.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3299	ECON	345	URBAN ECONOMICS	Intro to urban econ focusing on location of economic activity in geographic space and implications for society. Course uses theoretical modeling, empirical analysis, and historical accounts to explore questions: Why cities exist, form where they do, and grow/decline? How economic activity is organized. Spatial patterns of work, housing, transportation. Environmental consequences of urban density, suburban sprawl, polluting firms. Determinants of price of land, house values, rents. Household sorting across neighborhoods. Causes/consequences of racial segregation, neighborhood gentrification, spatial concentration of poverty/wealth, Prerequisite: Economics 201D; Economics 204D recommended.	(R) Research
3299	ECON	345	URBAN ECONOMICS	Intro to urban econ focusing on location of economic activity in geographic space and implications for society. Course uses theoretical modeling, empirical analysis, and historical accounts to explore questions: Why cities exist, form where they do, and grow/decline? How economic activity is organized. Spatial patterns of work, housing, transportation. Environmental consequences of urban density, suburban sprawl, polluting firms. Determinants of price of land, house values, rents. Household sorting across neighborhoods. Causes/consequences of racial segregation, neighborhood gentrification, spatial concentration of poverty/wealth, Prerequisite: Economics 201D; Economics 204D recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
3299	ECON	345	URBAN ECONOMICS	Intro to urban econ focusing on location of economic activity in geographic space and implications for society. Course uses theoretical modeling, empirical analysis, and historical accounts to explore questions: Why cities exist, form where they do, and grow/decline? How economic activity is organized. Spatial patterns of work, housing, transportation. Environmental consequences of urban density, suburban sprawl, polluting firms. Determinants of price of land, house values, rents. Household sorting across neighborhoods. Causes/consequences of racial segregation, neighborhood gentrification, spatial concentration of poverty/wealth, Prerequisite: Economics 201D; Economics 204D recommended.	(W) Writing
3301	ECON	311	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3301	ECON	311	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(R) Research
3301	ECON	311	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3301	ECON	311	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(W) Writing
3301	HISTORY	307	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3301	HISTORY	307	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(R) Research
3301	HISTORY	307	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3301	HISTORY	307	HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT	Approaches to economic problems from Aristotle to Keynes, emphasizing certain models and doctrinestheir origins, relevance, and evolution. Readings from Mun, Quesnay, Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marx, Walras, Veblen, and Keynes. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(W) Writing
3313	ECON	334	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3313	ECON	334	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3313	ECON	334	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(W) Writing
3313	HLTHPOL	334	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3313	HLTHPOL	334	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3313	HLTHPOL	334	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(W) Writing
3313	PUBPOL	331	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3313	PUBPOL	331	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3313	PUBPOL	331	HEALTH ECONOMICS	Economic aspects of the production, distribution, and organization of health care services, such as measuring output, structure of markets, demand for services, pricing of services, cost of care, financing, mechanisms, and their impact on the relevant markets. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or Public Policy 303D.	(W) Writing
3314	ECON	471	FINANCIAL MRKT AND INVESTMENTS	The structure and workings of financial markets. Topics include risk-return relationships, aspects of portfolio selection, the capital asset pricing model, the arbitrage pricing theory, fixed income analysis, and aspects of derivatives. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or 372; AND Economics 104D, or Statistical Science 111L, 130L, 230, or 250D, or Mathematics 230 or 342D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
3314	ECON	471	FINANCIAL MRKT AND INVESTMENTS	The structure and workings of financial markets. Topics include risk-return relationships, aspects of portfolio selection, the capital asset pricing model, the arbitrage pricing theory, fixed income analysis, and aspects of derivatives. Prerequisite: Economics 201D or 372; AND Economics 104D, or Statistical Science 111L, 130L, 230, or 250D, or Mathematics 230 or 342D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3324	ECON	355	INTERNATIONAL TRADE	Topics include United States trade policies and protectionism, the North American Free Trade area, trade and economic relations with industrialized countries, policies toward developing countries and multilateral institutions, macroeconomic policy coordination, and relations with Europe. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3324	ECON	355	INTERNATIONAL TRADE	Topics include United States trade policies and protectionism, the North American Free Trade area, trade and economic relations with industrialized countries, policies toward developing countries and multilateral institutions, macroeconomic policy coordination, and relations with Europe. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3324	ECON	355	INTERNATIONAL TRADE	Topics include United States trade policies and protectionism, the North American Free Trade area, trade and economic relations with industrialized countries, policies toward developing countries and multilateral institutions, macroeconomic policy coordination, and relations with Europe. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
3324	PUBPOL	288	INTERNATIONAL TRADE	Topics include United States trade policies and protectionism, the North American Free Trade area, trade and economic relations with industrialized countries, policies toward developing countries and multilateral institutions, macroeconomic policy coordination, and relations with Europe. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3324	PUBPOL	288	INTERNATIONAL TRADE	Topics include United States trade policies and protectionism, the North American Free Trade area, trade and economic relations with industrialized countries, policies toward developing countries and multilateral institutions, macroeconomic policy coordination, and relations with Europe. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3324	PUBPOL	288	INTERNATIONAL TRADE	Topics include United States trade policies and protectionism, the North American Free Trade area, trade and economic relations with industrialized countries, policies toward developing countries and multilateral institutions, macroeconomic policy coordination, and relations with Europe. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
3334	ECON	373	CORPORATE FINANCE	Major corporate decisions from the perspective of the firm with an emphasis on the interaction of the firm with financial markets: quantitative project evaluation for investment, choice between borrowing and issuing stock, dividend policy, organizational form (for example, mergers and acquisitions). Introduction to financial markets: asset pricing, issuing stocks, analyzing financial performance using relative value tools, and options. Prerequisite: Economics Majors: Economics 201D and 204D or 208D; Economics or Financial Economics Minors: Economics 372.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
3334	ECON	373	CORPORATE FINANCE	Major corporate decisions from the perspective of the firm with an emphasis on the interaction of the firm with financial markets: quantitative project evaluation for investment, choice between borrowing and issuing stock, dividend policy, organizational form (for example, mergers and acquisitions). Introduction to financial markets: asset pricing, issuing stocks, analyzing financial performance using relative value tools, and options. Prerequisite: Economics Majors: Economics 201D and 204D or 208D; Economics or Financial Economics Minors: Economics 372.	(R) Research
3334	ECON	373	CORPORATE FINANCE	Major corporate decisions from the perspective of the firm with an emphasis on the interaction of the firm with financial markets: quantitative project evaluation for investment, choice between borrowing and issuing stock, dividend policy, organizational form (for example, mergers and acquisitions). Introduction to financial markets: asset pricing, issuing stocks, analyzing financial performance using relative value tools, and options. Prerequisite: Economics Majors: Economics 201D and 204D or 208D; Economics or Financial Economics Minors: Economics 372.	(SS) Social Sciences
3340	ECON	464	COMPETITIVE STRAT & INDUS ORG	Foundations of the field of industrial organization, including the theory of the firm, models of competition, market structure, pricing and dynamic models. Emphasis on theory with support from specific industries, including telecommunications, retail and airlines. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
3340	ECON	464	COMPETITIVE STRAT & INDUS ORG	Foundations of the field of industrial organization, including the theory of the firm, models of competition, market structure, pricing and dynamic models. Emphasis on theory with support from specific industries, including telecommunications, retail and airlines. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
3343	ECON	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(R) Research
3343	ECON	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	Independent Study
3345	ECON	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Same as Economics 393, but for second-semester juniors and seniors. Consent of director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D.	(R) Research
3345	ECON	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Same as Economics 393, but for second-semester juniors and seniors. Consent of director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D.	Independent Study
3346	ECON	392	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic product. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and Economics 210D.	Independent Study
3347	ECON	390	SELECTED TOPICS IN ECONOMICS	Topics vary by semester. Prerequisite: Economics 201D; check individual semester offerings for additional prerequisites. Instructor permission usually an option.	Topics Course
3348	ECON	490	SELECTED TOPICS IN ECONOMICS	Topics vary by semester. Check individual semester offerings for prerequisites. Instructor permission usually an option.	Topics Course
3349	ECON	 495S	HONORS SEMINAR I	First course in two-semester honors sequence. Guided research on student-selected topics. Iterative presentations and writing assignments on current literature related to student-selected topics and of student-developed research proposals. Course requires completion of research proposal suitable for write-up as honors thesis in Economics 496S. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D and (204D or 208D).	(R) Research
3349	ECON	 495S	HONORS SEMINAR I	First course in two-semester honors sequence. Guided research on student-selected topics. Iterative presentations and writing assignments on current literature related to student-selected topics and of student-developed research proposals. Course requires completion of research proposal suitable for write-up as honors thesis in Economics 496S. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D and (204D or 208D).	(SS) Social Sciences
3349	ECON	 495S	HONORS SEMINAR I	First course in two-semester honors sequence. Guided research on student-selected topics. Iterative presentations and writing assignments on current literature related to student-selected topics and of student-developed research proposals. Course requires completion of research proposal suitable for write-up as honors thesis in Economics 496S. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D and (204D or 208D).	(W) Writing
3349	ECON	 495S	HONORS SEMINAR I	First course in two-semester honors sequence. Guided research on student-selected topics. Iterative presentations and writing assignments on current literature related to student-selected topics and of student-developed research proposals. Course requires completion of research proposal suitable for write-up as honors thesis in Economics 496S. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D and (204D or 208D).	Seminar
3511	EDUC	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
3511	EDUC	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
3513	EDUC	101	FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION	Interdisciplinary examination of issues confronting American education, incorporating historical, political, economical, philosophical, and social perspectives. Exploration of ways cultural influences and differences have shaped public schools. Students participate in structured service learning experience in which they reflect on ethical issues related to schooling. Required participation in service-learning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3513	EDUC	101	FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION	Interdisciplinary examination of issues confronting American education, incorporating historical, political, economical, philosophical, and social perspectives. Exploration of ways cultural influences and differences have shaped public schools. Students participate in structured service learning experience in which they reflect on ethical issues related to schooling. Required participation in service-learning.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3513	EDUC	101	FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION	Interdisciplinary examination of issues confronting American education, incorporating historical, political, economical, philosophical, and social perspectives. Exploration of ways cultural influences and differences have shaped public schools. Students participate in structured service learning experience in which they reflect on ethical issues related to schooling. Required participation in service-learning.	(SS) Social Sciences
3516	EDUC	 408S	TEACHING PRAC LANG ARTS & SS	Research-based teaching practices in elementary language arts and social studies for culturally diverse populations. Emphasis on literacy development across grade levels and content areas. Readings and field experience promoting critical analysis of ethical teaching practices, role of teachers and schools in society, and impact of teacher effect on environment and student learning. Consent of instructor required. Includes a service-learning component involving work in the community.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3516	EDUC	 408S	TEACHING PRAC LANG ARTS & SS	Research-based teaching practices in elementary language arts and social studies for culturally diverse populations. Emphasis on literacy development across grade levels and content areas. Readings and field experience promoting critical analysis of ethical teaching practices, role of teachers and schools in society, and impact of teacher effect on environment and student learning. Consent of instructor required. Includes a service-learning component involving work in the community.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3516	EDUC	 408S	TEACHING PRAC LANG ARTS & SS	Research-based teaching practices in elementary language arts and social studies for culturally diverse populations. Emphasis on literacy development across grade levels and content areas. Readings and field experience promoting critical analysis of ethical teaching practices, role of teachers and schools in society, and impact of teacher effect on environment and student learning. Consent of instructor required. Includes a service-learning component involving work in the community.	(SS) Social Sciences
3516	EDUC	 408S	TEACHING PRAC LANG ARTS & SS	Research-based teaching practices in elementary language arts and social studies for culturally diverse populations. Emphasis on literacy development across grade levels and content areas. Readings and field experience promoting critical analysis of ethical teaching practices, role of teachers and schools in society, and impact of teacher effect on environment and student learning. Consent of instructor required. Includes a service-learning component involving work in the community.	Seminar
3519	EDUC	240	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	Principles of developmental, social, and cognitive psychology as applied to education, with a focus on how children learn. Examination of the impact on learning of race, class, gender, and ethnicity, including a comparative analysis of cultural differences in American schools. Through structured service-learning experiences in local schools, students reflect through writing on ethical issues in teaching. Required service-learning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3519	EDUC	240	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	Principles of developmental, social, and cognitive psychology as applied to education, with a focus on how children learn. Examination of the impact on learning of race, class, gender, and ethnicity, including a comparative analysis of cultural differences in American schools. Through structured service-learning experiences in local schools, students reflect through writing on ethical issues in teaching. Required service-learning.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3519	EDUC	240	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	Principles of developmental, social, and cognitive psychology as applied to education, with a focus on how children learn. Examination of the impact on learning of race, class, gender, and ethnicity, including a comparative analysis of cultural differences in American schools. Through structured service-learning experiences in local schools, students reflect through writing on ethical issues in teaching. Required service-learning.	(SS) Social Sciences
3519	PSY	240	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	Principles of developmental, social, and cognitive psychology as applied to education, with a focus on how children learn. Examination of the impact on learning of race, class, gender, and ethnicity, including a comparative analysis of cultural differences in American schools. Through structured service-learning experiences in local schools, students reflect through writing on ethical issues in teaching. Required service-learning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3519	PSY	240	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	Principles of developmental, social, and cognitive psychology as applied to education, with a focus on how children learn. Examination of the impact on learning of race, class, gender, and ethnicity, including a comparative analysis of cultural differences in American schools. Through structured service-learning experiences in local schools, students reflect through writing on ethical issues in teaching. Required service-learning.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3519	PSY	240	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	Principles of developmental, social, and cognitive psychology as applied to education, with a focus on how children learn. Examination of the impact on learning of race, class, gender, and ethnicity, including a comparative analysis of cultural differences in American schools. Through structured service-learning experiences in local schools, students reflect through writing on ethical issues in teaching. Required service-learning.	(SS) Social Sciences
3526	EDUC	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3526	EDUC	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
3526	EDUC	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
3526	EDUC	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(W) Writing
3526	EDUC	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
3526	SOCIOL	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3526	SOCIOL	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
3526	SOCIOL	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
3526	SOCIOL	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	(W) Writing
3526	SOCIOL	 430S	WOMEN, LEADERSHIP, PURPOSE	Interdisciplinary analysis of the history of ideas about women and the professions with emphasis on women's actions, past, present and future. The changing status of women in professional life; ethical and political implications of public and personal decision-making. Study of research and writing by and about women in professional fields; interviews with working women. Research paper integrating students' major, the internship experience and their future goals required. Senior seminar open only to Baldwin Scholars. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
3532	EDUC	290	SELECTED TOPICS		Topics Course
3548	EDUC	 390T-1	JR-SR TUTORIALS (TOP)	Small group discussions of significant books, authors, and ideas in education. The availability of tutorials, their content, and the instructors will be announced before preregistration. Consent of instructor required.	Topics Course
3548	EDUC	 390T-1	JR-SR TUTORIALS (TOP)	Small group discussions of significant books, authors, and ideas in education. The availability of tutorials, their content, and the instructors will be announced before preregistration. Consent of instructor required.	Tutorial
3557	EDUC	 496S	SECONDARY SCHOOL ISSUES	Examination of schools and classrooms of the twenty-first century with focus on values, beliefs, and assumptions underlying teaching and learning in high school. Emphasis on ethical issues in teaching, pedagogical and methodological practices, teacher leadership, and impact of technology on schooling. Exploration of social fabric of schools as related to diversity, educational philosophies, and school culture by viewing these constructs from divergent perspectives. Students complete an extensive research project based on fieldwork in a local high school.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3557	EDUC	 496S	SECONDARY SCHOOL ISSUES	Examination of schools and classrooms of the twenty-first century with focus on values, beliefs, and assumptions underlying teaching and learning in high school. Emphasis on ethical issues in teaching, pedagogical and methodological practices, teacher leadership, and impact of technology on schooling. Exploration of social fabric of schools as related to diversity, educational philosophies, and school culture by viewing these constructs from divergent perspectives. Students complete an extensive research project based on fieldwork in a local high school.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3557	EDUC	 496S	SECONDARY SCHOOL ISSUES	Examination of schools and classrooms of the twenty-first century with focus on values, beliefs, and assumptions underlying teaching and learning in high school. Emphasis on ethical issues in teaching, pedagogical and methodological practices, teacher leadership, and impact of technology on schooling. Exploration of social fabric of schools as related to diversity, educational philosophies, and school culture by viewing these constructs from divergent perspectives. Students complete an extensive research project based on fieldwork in a local high school.	(SS) Social Sciences
3557	EDUC	 496S	SECONDARY SCHOOL ISSUES	Examination of schools and classrooms of the twenty-first century with focus on values, beliefs, and assumptions underlying teaching and learning in high school. Emphasis on ethical issues in teaching, pedagogical and methodological practices, teacher leadership, and impact of technology on schooling. Exploration of social fabric of schools as related to diversity, educational philosophies, and school culture by viewing these constructs from divergent perspectives. Students complete an extensive research project based on fieldwork in a local high school.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
3557	EDUC	 496S	SECONDARY SCHOOL ISSUES	Examination of schools and classrooms of the twenty-first century with focus on values, beliefs, and assumptions underlying teaching and learning in high school. Emphasis on ethical issues in teaching, pedagogical and methodological practices, teacher leadership, and impact of technology on schooling. Exploration of social fabric of schools as related to diversity, educational philosophies, and school culture by viewing these constructs from divergent perspectives. Students complete an extensive research project based on fieldwork in a local high school.	Seminar
3558	EDUC	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive research paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
3558	EDUC	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive research paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3559	EDUC	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed readings in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or project on a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3569	EDUC	 497S	SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACH	Principles, practices, and problems in secondary school instruction, including a focus on values and ethics in teaching. Consent of instructor required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3569	EDUC	 497S	SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACH	Principles, practices, and problems in secondary school instruction, including a focus on values and ethics in teaching. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
3569	EDUC	 497S	SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACH	Principles, practices, and problems in secondary school instruction, including a focus on values and ethics in teaching. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
3570	EDUC	498	SECONDARY EDU: PRACTICUM	Supervised practicum in a local high school focused on integration of educational theories and effective teaching practices. Design, implementation, and evaluation of units of instruction. Creation of portfolio to demonstrate competencies for teaching certification in a specific secondary content field. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3570	EDUC	498	SECONDARY EDU: PRACTICUM	Supervised practicum in a local high school focused on integration of educational theories and effective teaching practices. Design, implementation, and evaluation of units of instruction. Creation of portfolio to demonstrate competencies for teaching certification in a specific secondary content field. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
3570	EDUC	498	SECONDARY EDU: PRACTICUM	Supervised practicum in a local high school focused on integration of educational theories and effective teaching practices. Design, implementation, and evaluation of units of instruction. Creation of portfolio to demonstrate competencies for teaching certification in a specific secondary content field. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
3646	ECE	391	PROJECTS IN ECE	Project arranged on a special topic by an instructor with related interests and expertise. For junior students. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3648	ECE	493	PROJECTS IN ECE	Project arranged on a special topic by an instructor with related interests and expertise. For senior students. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3650	ECE	495	SPECIAL TOPICS	Study of selected topics in electrical engineering tailored to fit the requirements of a small group. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Topics Course
3765	EGR	 103L	COMP METH IN ENGINEERING	Introduction to computer methods and algorithms for analysis and solution of engineering problems using numerical methods in a workstation environment. Topics include; numerical integration, roots of equations, simultaneous equation solving, finite difference methods, matrix analysis, linear programming, dynamic programming, and heuristic solutions used in engineering practice. This course does not require any prior knowledge of computer programming.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
3765	EGR	 103L	COMP METH IN ENGINEERING	Introduction to computer methods and algorithms for analysis and solution of engineering problems using numerical methods in a workstation environment. Topics include; numerical integration, roots of equations, simultaneous equation solving, finite difference methods, matrix analysis, linear programming, dynamic programming, and heuristic solutions used in engineering practice. This course does not require any prior knowledge of computer programming.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
3775	ECON	212	ENGR SYSTEMS OPTIM AND ECON	Introduction to mathematical optimization, engineering economic analysis, and other decision analysis tools used to evaluate and design engineering systems. Application of linear and nonlinear programming, dynamic programming, expert systems, simulation and heuristic methods to engineering systems design problems. Applications discussed include: production plant scheduling, water resources planning, design and analysis, vehicle routing, resource allocation, repair and rehabilitation scheduling and economic analysis of engineering design alternatives. Pratt students may not use this course toward the SS/H degree requirement. Corequisite: Mathematics 216.	(SS) Social Sciences
3775	EGR	305	ENGR SYSTEMS OPTIM AND ECON	Introduction to mathematical optimization, engineering economic analysis, and other decision analysis tools used to evaluate and design engineering systems. Application of linear and nonlinear programming, dynamic programming, expert systems, simulation and heuristic methods to engineering systems design problems. Applications discussed include: production plant scheduling, water resources planning, design and analysis, vehicle routing, resource allocation, repair and rehabilitation scheduling and economic analysis of engineering design alternatives. Pratt students may not use this course toward the SS/H degree requirement. Corequisite: Mathematics 216.	(SS) Social Sciences
3784	EGR	190	SPECIAL TOPICS	Study arranged on special engineering topics in which the faculty have particular interest and competence as a result of research or professional activities. Consent of instructor(s) required.	Topics Course
3791	EGR	391	PROJECTS	Courses in which engineering projects of an interdisciplinary nature are undertaken. The projects must have engineering relevance in the sense of undertaking to meet human need through a disciplined approach under the guidance of a member of the engineering faculty. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
3792	EGR	491	PROJECTS	Courses in which engineering projects of an interdisciplinary nature are undertaken. The projects must have engineering relevance in the sense of undertaking to meet human need through a disciplined approach under the guidance of a member of the engineering faculty. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
3807	ENGLISH	  90S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN LITERATURE	Topics vary by semester; emphasis on development of writing skills.	Seminar
3807	ENGLISH	  90S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN LITERATURE	Topics vary by semester; emphasis on development of writing skills.	Topics Course
3813	ENGLISH	 190FS-2	FOCUS PROG SEM LIT (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
3813	ENGLISH	 190FS-2	FOCUS PROG SEM LIT (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
3815	ENGLISH	  89S	1ST-YR SEM LIT (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered. Prior to the drop/add period, this course is restricted to first-year students who have not fulfilled their seminar requirement.	Seminar
3815	ENGLISH	  89S	1ST-YR SEM LIT (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered. Prior to the drop/add period, this course is restricted to first-year students who have not fulfilled their seminar requirement.	Topics Course
3824	ENGLISH	 110S	INTRO CREATIVE WRITING	A multi-genre course designed for students who have little or no previous experience producing imaginative literary texts. This course does not count toward the English major, but would count toward the minor in creative writing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3824	ENGLISH	 110S	INTRO CREATIVE WRITING	A multi-genre course designed for students who have little or no previous experience producing imaginative literary texts. This course does not count toward the English major, but would count toward the minor in creative writing.	(W) Writing
3824	ENGLISH	 110S	INTRO CREATIVE WRITING	A multi-genre course designed for students who have little or no previous experience producing imaginative literary texts. This course does not count toward the English major, but would count toward the minor in creative writing.	Seminar
3842	ENGLISH	 222S	INTRO TO THE WTG OF CREAT. N-F	The introductory level genre-specific workshops are for students with some experience in creative writing who wish to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3842	ENGLISH	 222S	INTRO TO THE WTG OF CREAT. N-F	The introductory level genre-specific workshops are for students with some experience in creative writing who wish to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110S.	(W) Writing
3842	ENGLISH	 222S	INTRO TO THE WTG OF CREAT. N-F	The introductory level genre-specific workshops are for students with some experience in creative writing who wish to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110S.	Seminar
3844	ENGLISH	 220S	INTRO TO THE WRITING OF POETRY	The introductory level genre specific workshops are for students with some experience in creative writing who wish to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3844	ENGLISH	 220S	INTRO TO THE WRITING OF POETRY	The introductory level genre specific workshops are for students with some experience in creative writing who wish to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110S.	(W) Writing
3844	ENGLISH	 220S	INTRO TO THE WRITING OF POETRY	The introductory level genre specific workshops are for students with some experience in creative writing who wish to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110S.	Seminar
3845	CINE	201	INTRO TO FILM STUDIES	Basic film theory and history of motion picture technology. Introduction to experimental, documentary, and narrative forms of Third World, European, and United States cinemas.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3845	DOCST	264	INTRO TO FILM STUDIES	Basic film theory and history of motion picture technology. Introduction to experimental, documentary, and narrative forms of Third World, European, and United States cinemas.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3845	ENGLISH	181	INTRO TO FILM STUDIES	Basic film theory and history of motion picture technology. Introduction to experimental, documentary, and narrative forms of Third World, European, and United States cinemas.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3845	VMS	289	INTRO TO FILM STUDIES	Basic film theory and history of motion picture technology. Introduction to experimental, documentary, and narrative forms of Third World, European, and United States cinemas.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3853	ENGLISH	 320S	INT. WORKSHOP IN WTG OF POETRY	Intermediate workshops present a higher creative standard than introductory workshops and increased expectations in both quantity and quality of revised, finished work. Prerequisite: English 110S or English 220S, or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3853	ENGLISH	 320S	INT. WORKSHOP IN WTG OF POETRY	Intermediate workshops present a higher creative standard than introductory workshops and increased expectations in both quantity and quality of revised, finished work. Prerequisite: English 110S or English 220S, or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(W) Writing
3853	ENGLISH	 320S	INT. WORKSHOP IN WTG OF POETRY	Intermediate workshops present a higher creative standard than introductory workshops and increased expectations in both quantity and quality of revised, finished work. Prerequisite: English 110S or English 220S, or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	Seminar
3854	ENGLISH	 420S	ADV WORKSHOP WTG. POETRY	Advanced Writing Workshops build on the work done at the intermediate level, and are intended for the most well-prepared and gifted creative writing students. Prerequisite: English 320S or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3854	ENGLISH	 420S	ADV WORKSHOP WTG. POETRY	Advanced Writing Workshops build on the work done at the intermediate level, and are intended for the most well-prepared and gifted creative writing students. Prerequisite: English 320S or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(W) Writing
3854	ENGLISH	 420S	ADV WORKSHOP WTG. POETRY	Advanced Writing Workshops build on the work done at the intermediate level, and are intended for the most well-prepared and gifted creative writing students. Prerequisite: English 320S or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	Seminar
3857	ENGLISH	 290S-4	SP TOPICS IN CREATIVE WRITING	Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
3857	ENGLISH	 290S-4	SP TOPICS IN CREATIVE WRITING	Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
3906	ENGLISH	 290S-1	SP TOP MEDIEVAL/EARLY MOD LIT	A major author, topic, or theme of the medieval and early modern period (excluding Chaucer). Satisfies the Area I requirement for English majors. Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
3906	ENGLISH	 290S-1	SP TOP MEDIEVAL/EARLY MOD LIT	A major author, topic, or theme of the medieval and early modern period (excluding Chaucer). Satisfies the Area I requirement for English majors. Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
3906	MEDREN	 290S-1	SP TOP MEDIEVAL/EARLY MOD LIT	A major author, topic, or theme of the medieval and early modern period (excluding Chaucer). Satisfies the Area I requirement for English majors. Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
3906	MEDREN	 290S-1	SP TOP MEDIEVAL/EARLY MOD LIT	A major author, topic, or theme of the medieval and early modern period (excluding Chaucer). Satisfies the Area I requirement for English majors. Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
3908	ENGLISH	 290S-2	SP TOP 18TH & 19TH CENTURY LIT	A major author, topic, or theme of eighteenth and nineteenth century literature. Satisfies the Area II requirements for English majors. Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
3908	ENGLISH	 290S-2	SP TOP 18TH & 19TH CENTURY LIT	A major author, topic, or theme of eighteenth and nineteenth century literature. Satisfies the Area II requirements for English majors. Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
3920	ENGLISH	271	CLASSICS OF AM LIT: 1915-1960	Prose and poetry by such authors as Eliot, Fitzgerald, Hemingway, Faulkner, and others. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3931	AAAS	224	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3931	AAAS	224	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3931	AAAS	224	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(CZ) Civilizations
3931	AAAS	224	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3931	AAAS	224	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(W) Writing
3931	ENGLISH	276	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
3931	ENGLISH	276	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
3931	ENGLISH	276	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(CZ) Civilizations
3931	ENGLISH	276	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
3931	ENGLISH	276	AFRICAN DIASPORA LITERATURE	Late-nineteenth-century to contemporary writers, including African American, Caribbean, and African authors. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	(W) Writing
3981	ENGLISH	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research creative writing project directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Open to juniors and seniors. Consent of both the instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3982	ENGLISH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to juniors and seniors. Consent of both the instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
3982	ENGLISH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to juniors and seniors. Consent of both the instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
3993	ENGLISH	498	DISTINCTN CRIT RES IND ST	Open to those whose thesis will be a critical paper or piece of other research (for example, in linguistics). Application and consent of the Director of Undergraduate Studies.	(R) Research
3993	ENGLISH	498	DISTINCTN CRIT RES IND ST	Open to those whose thesis will be a critical paper or piece of other research (for example, in linguistics). Application and consent of the Director of Undergraduate Studies.	Independent Study
3994	ENGLISH	496	DISTINCTN CREAT WR IND ST	Open to those whose thesis will be in the field of creative writing. Application and consent of the Director of Undergraduate Studies.	Independent Study
4062	ENVIRON	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
4062	ENVIRON	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
4065	ENVIRON	201	INTEGRATING ENV SCI/POL	Interaction between the natural and the social systems as they relate to the environment. Focus on ecological and earth system cycles, processes, and fundamental relationships. The environmental impact of human-induced change at the local, regional, and global levels. The role of technology and the policy process in determining how environmental problems evolve and are addressed. Use of ethical analysis to evaluate environmental tradeoffs. Use of case studies to integrate multiple disciplinary perspectives on environmental problems and to address issues of environmental justice. Prerequisite: Environment 102 or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
4065	ENVIRON	201	INTEGRATING ENV SCI/POL	Interaction between the natural and the social systems as they relate to the environment. Focus on ecological and earth system cycles, processes, and fundamental relationships. The environmental impact of human-induced change at the local, regional, and global levels. The role of technology and the policy process in determining how environmental problems evolve and are addressed. Use of ethical analysis to evaluate environmental tradeoffs. Use of case studies to integrate multiple disciplinary perspectives on environmental problems and to address issues of environmental justice. Prerequisite: Environment 102 or consent of instructor.	(SS) Social Sciences
4065	ENVIRON	201	INTEGRATING ENV SCI/POL	Interaction between the natural and the social systems as they relate to the environment. Focus on ecological and earth system cycles, processes, and fundamental relationships. The environmental impact of human-induced change at the local, regional, and global levels. The role of technology and the policy process in determining how environmental problems evolve and are addressed. Use of ethical analysis to evaluate environmental tradeoffs. Use of case studies to integrate multiple disciplinary perspectives on environmental problems and to address issues of environmental justice. Prerequisite: Environment 102 or consent of instructor.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
4079	ENVIRON	390	SP TOP ENVIRON SCI/POL	Content to be determined each semester.	Topics Course
4081	ENVIRON	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
4081	ENVIRON	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
4082	ENVIRON	 393-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Environment 393. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
4082	ENVIRON	 393-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Environment 393. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
4083	ENVIRON	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual readings course or other non-research-based independent course under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic product. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
4261	ENVIRON	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Environ 393. Open to qualified students by consent of director of undergraduate studies and supervising instructor.	(R) Research
4261	ENVIRON	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Environ 393. Open to qualified students by consent of director of undergraduate studies and supervising instructor.	Independent Study
4417	FRENCH	101	ELEMENTARY FRENCH 1	The course offers an introduction to the French language, and aspects of French and Francophone cultures via interactive content and classes. Students build a strong foundation to communicate and exchange with French speakers in varied social interactions, comprehend short, authentic materials, and share opinions on personal and societal topics. Equal attention to speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. Conducted in French. Open to students who have never studied French before, or who have studied French for no more than 2 years in high school.	(FL) Foreign Language
4419	FRENCH	102	ELEMENTARY FRENCH 2	The course builds on the elements of the language acquired in French 101 and offers continued engagement with aspects of French and Francophone cultures via interactive content and classes. Students continue to develop their ability to communicate and exchange with French speakers in varied social interactions, comprehend authentic materials, and share opinions on personal and societal topics. Equal attention to speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: French 101 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
4422	FRENCH	111	INTENSIVE ELEM FRENCH	This 2-credit course covers the elementary French 101-102 sequence in one semester. Offers an intensive introduction to the French language and aspects of French and Francophone cultures via interactive content and classes. Students build a strong foundation to communicate and exchange with French speakers in varied social interactions, comprehend authentic materials, and share opinions on personal and societal topics. Students also begin to develop insight into their language and culture, including discussions of language and identity, and multilingualism. Open to students who have never studied French before, or who have studied French for no more than 2 years in high school.	(FL) Foreign Language
4427	FRENCH	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
4427	FRENCH	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
4428	FRENCH	203	INTERMED FRENCH LANG/CUL	The first course of the 2-course intermediate French sequence, French 203 builds on the elements of the language acquired in the elementary French 101-102 sequence. Continued engagement with French and Francophone cultures via interactive content and classes. Students expand their ability to communicate in interpersonal, interpretive, presentational, and intercultural settings. Engagement with a variety of authentic materials, discussions, and debates. Equal attention to speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: French 102 or French 111, AP French Language and Culture test score of 3, or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
4428	FRENCH	203	INTERMED FRENCH LANG/CUL	The first course of the 2-course intermediate French sequence, French 203 builds on the elements of the language acquired in the elementary French 101-102 sequence. Continued engagement with French and Francophone cultures via interactive content and classes. Students expand their ability to communicate in interpersonal, interpretive, presentational, and intercultural settings. Engagement with a variety of authentic materials, discussions, and debates. Equal attention to speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: French 102 or French 111, AP French Language and Culture test score of 3, or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
4432	FRENCH	204	ADV INTERMED FR LANG/CUL	This advanced intermediate French course focuses on developing more sophisticated interpersonal, interpretive, presentational, and intercultural communication skills. As the semester progresses, you will learn skills in interpreting cinematographic and literary works and gain confidence in your French as you review grammar and vocabulary and learn to express yourselves and understand others in increasingly complex and abstract ways. Guided essay writing on topics related to the readings and discussion. Prerequisite: French 203 at Duke, AP French Language and Culture test score of 4, or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
4432	FRENCH	204	ADV INTERMED FR LANG/CUL	This advanced intermediate French course focuses on developing more sophisticated interpersonal, interpretive, presentational, and intercultural communication skills. As the semester progresses, you will learn skills in interpreting cinematographic and literary works and gain confidence in your French as you review grammar and vocabulary and learn to express yourselves and understand others in increasingly complex and abstract ways. Guided essay writing on topics related to the readings and discussion. Prerequisite: French 203 at Duke, AP French Language and Culture test score of 4, or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
4434	FRENCH	 302S	CULTURAL/LITERARY PERSP	Designed to give students having completed the intermediate French  203204 sequence the reading and writing skills necessary to enter mid-300 level courses in French and Francophone studies. Examines the (re-)negotiation of the French identity through a series of texts and films that introduce students to contemporary Francophone thought. Topics include cultural practices, collective myths, sociolinguistics, and immigration. Prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent. Not open to students who have received a 5 on the AP French Language and Culture Exam.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
4434	FRENCH	 302S	CULTURAL/LITERARY PERSP	Designed to give students having completed the intermediate French  203204 sequence the reading and writing skills necessary to enter mid-300 level courses in French and Francophone studies. Examines the (re-)negotiation of the French identity through a series of texts and films that introduce students to contemporary Francophone thought. Topics include cultural practices, collective myths, sociolinguistics, and immigration. Prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent. Not open to students who have received a 5 on the AP French Language and Culture Exam.	(FL) Foreign Language
4434	FRENCH	 302S	CULTURAL/LITERARY PERSP	Designed to give students having completed the intermediate French  203204 sequence the reading and writing skills necessary to enter mid-300 level courses in French and Francophone studies. Examines the (re-)negotiation of the French identity through a series of texts and films that introduce students to contemporary Francophone thought. Topics include cultural practices, collective myths, sociolinguistics, and immigration. Prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent. Not open to students who have received a 5 on the AP French Language and Culture Exam.	(W) Writing
4434	FRENCH	 302S	CULTURAL/LITERARY PERSP	Designed to give students having completed the intermediate French  203204 sequence the reading and writing skills necessary to enter mid-300 level courses in French and Francophone studies. Examines the (re-)negotiation of the French identity through a series of texts and films that introduce students to contemporary Francophone thought. Topics include cultural practices, collective myths, sociolinguistics, and immigration. Prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent. Not open to students who have received a 5 on the AP French Language and Culture Exam.	Seminar
4435	FRENCH	 301S	FINDING YOUR VOICE IN FRENCH	Develop your authorial voice in French. Whether you want to make readers laugh or cry, how can you use nuance, word choice, a sense of language rhythm to create impact? Study a multitude of texts for inspiration, from Nobel Prize winners to those who rebel and write, or sing, from the margins, using and creating language in powerful and innovative ways. Write in many forms--children's stories, poetry, persuasive speech, essays, literary fiction--expanding the space for self-expression and the power and possibilities of your own multilingualism. Close reading, discussion of craft, journaling and creative writing, workshopping, peer feedback, revision. Prerequisite: French 204, AP score of 5, or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
4435	FRENCH	 301S	FINDING YOUR VOICE IN FRENCH	Develop your authorial voice in French. Whether you want to make readers laugh or cry, how can you use nuance, word choice, a sense of language rhythm to create impact? Study a multitude of texts for inspiration, from Nobel Prize winners to those who rebel and write, or sing, from the margins, using and creating language in powerful and innovative ways. Write in many forms--children's stories, poetry, persuasive speech, essays, literary fiction--expanding the space for self-expression and the power and possibilities of your own multilingualism. Close reading, discussion of craft, journaling and creative writing, workshopping, peer feedback, revision. Prerequisite: French 204, AP score of 5, or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
4435	FRENCH	 301S	FINDING YOUR VOICE IN FRENCH	Develop your authorial voice in French. Whether you want to make readers laugh or cry, how can you use nuance, word choice, a sense of language rhythm to create impact? Study a multitude of texts for inspiration, from Nobel Prize winners to those who rebel and write, or sing, from the margins, using and creating language in powerful and innovative ways. Write in many forms--children's stories, poetry, persuasive speech, essays, literary fiction--expanding the space for self-expression and the power and possibilities of your own multilingualism. Close reading, discussion of craft, journaling and creative writing, workshopping, peer feedback, revision. Prerequisite: French 204, AP score of 5, or equivalent.	(W) Writing
4435	FRENCH	 301S	FINDING YOUR VOICE IN FRENCH	Develop your authorial voice in French. Whether you want to make readers laugh or cry, how can you use nuance, word choice, a sense of language rhythm to create impact? Study a multitude of texts for inspiration, from Nobel Prize winners to those who rebel and write, or sing, from the margins, using and creating language in powerful and innovative ways. Write in many forms--children's stories, poetry, persuasive speech, essays, literary fiction--expanding the space for self-expression and the power and possibilities of your own multilingualism. Close reading, discussion of craft, journaling and creative writing, workshopping, peer feedback, revision. Prerequisite: French 204, AP score of 5, or equivalent.	Seminar
4440	FRENCH	 303S	FR FOR CURRENT AFFAIRS	A contemporary culture/civilization course on changes and controversies in France today. Includes sources from a variety of print, audio, and visual French media, as well as current cultural, social, economic, and political issues. Also includes political institutions, media, religion, immigration, health, educational systems, foreign policy, and France in the European Union. Equal emphasis is given to written and oral skills. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: French 204, AP French Language and Culture test score of 5, or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
4440	FRENCH	 303S	FR FOR CURRENT AFFAIRS	A contemporary culture/civilization course on changes and controversies in France today. Includes sources from a variety of print, audio, and visual French media, as well as current cultural, social, economic, and political issues. Also includes political institutions, media, religion, immigration, health, educational systems, foreign policy, and France in the European Union. Equal emphasis is given to written and oral skills. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: French 204, AP French Language and Culture test score of 5, or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
4440	FRENCH	 303S	FR FOR CURRENT AFFAIRS	A contemporary culture/civilization course on changes and controversies in France today. Includes sources from a variety of print, audio, and visual French media, as well as current cultural, social, economic, and political issues. Also includes political institutions, media, religion, immigration, health, educational systems, foreign policy, and France in the European Union. Equal emphasis is given to written and oral skills. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: French 204, AP French Language and Culture test score of 5, or equivalent.	Seminar
4498	FRENCH	 331S	FRANCOPHONE LITERATURE	Modern literature in French from French-speaking Africa and the French Caribbean. Topics include tradition and modernity; colonization, cultural assimilation, and the search for identity; and women in changing contexts.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4498	FRENCH	 331S	FRANCOPHONE LITERATURE	Modern literature in French from French-speaking Africa and the French Caribbean. Topics include tradition and modernity; colonization, cultural assimilation, and the search for identity; and women in changing contexts.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
4498	FRENCH	 331S	FRANCOPHONE LITERATURE	Modern literature in French from French-speaking Africa and the French Caribbean. Topics include tradition and modernity; colonization, cultural assimilation, and the search for identity; and women in changing contexts.	(FL) Foreign Language
4498	FRENCH	 331S	FRANCOPHONE LITERATURE	Modern literature in French from French-speaking Africa and the French Caribbean. Topics include tradition and modernity; colonization, cultural assimilation, and the search for identity; and women in changing contexts.	Seminar
4504	FRENCH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
4504	FRENCH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
4506	FRENCH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See French 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
4506	FRENCH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See French 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
4559	CINE	 301S	MOVING IMAGE PRACTICE	Film and digital video production in conjunction with the history and theory of these technologies. Students may produce work in 8mm, 16mm film and digital video and learn the basics of non-linear digital editing on Final Cut Pro.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4559	CINE	 301S	MOVING IMAGE PRACTICE	Film and digital video production in conjunction with the history and theory of these technologies. Students may produce work in 8mm, 16mm film and digital video and learn the basics of non-linear digital editing on Final Cut Pro.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
4559	CINE	 301S	MOVING IMAGE PRACTICE	Film and digital video production in conjunction with the history and theory of these technologies. Students may produce work in 8mm, 16mm film and digital video and learn the basics of non-linear digital editing on Final Cut Pro.	Seminar
4559	VMS	 261S	MOVING IMAGE PRACTICE	Film and digital video production in conjunction with the history and theory of these technologies. Students may produce work in 8mm, 16mm film and digital video and learn the basics of non-linear digital editing on Final Cut Pro.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4559	VMS	 261S	MOVING IMAGE PRACTICE	Film and digital video production in conjunction with the history and theory of these technologies. Students may produce work in 8mm, 16mm film and digital video and learn the basics of non-linear digital editing on Final Cut Pro.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
4559	VMS	 261S	MOVING IMAGE PRACTICE	Film and digital video production in conjunction with the history and theory of these technologies. Students may produce work in 8mm, 16mm film and digital video and learn the basics of non-linear digital editing on Final Cut Pro.	Seminar
4561	ARTSVIS	 326S	FILM ANIMATION PRODUCTION	Experimentation with various media; mastering animation techniques such as metamorphosis, timing, articulation, storytelling, sound design, special effects, and camera. Each student to produce a one-minute animated film on the Oxberry 16mm film animation stand. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 102S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4561	ARTSVIS	 326S	FILM ANIMATION PRODUCTION	Experimentation with various media; mastering animation techniques such as metamorphosis, timing, articulation, storytelling, sound design, special effects, and camera. Each student to produce a one-minute animated film on the Oxberry 16mm film animation stand. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 102S.	Seminar
4561	CINE	 320S	FILM ANIMATION PRODUCTION	Experimentation with various media; mastering animation techniques such as metamorphosis, timing, articulation, storytelling, sound design, special effects, and camera. Each student to produce a one-minute animated film on the Oxberry 16mm film animation stand. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 102S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4561	CINE	 320S	FILM ANIMATION PRODUCTION	Experimentation with various media; mastering animation techniques such as metamorphosis, timing, articulation, storytelling, sound design, special effects, and camera. Each student to produce a one-minute animated film on the Oxberry 16mm film animation stand. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 102S.	Seminar
4561	VMS	 271S	FILM ANIMATION PRODUCTION	Experimentation with various media; mastering animation techniques such as metamorphosis, timing, articulation, storytelling, sound design, special effects, and camera. Each student to produce a one-minute animated film on the Oxberry 16mm film animation stand. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 102S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4561	VMS	 271S	FILM ANIMATION PRODUCTION	Experimentation with various media; mastering animation techniques such as metamorphosis, timing, articulation, storytelling, sound design, special effects, and camera. Each student to produce a one-minute animated film on the Oxberry 16mm film animation stand. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 102S.	Seminar
4562	ARTSVIS	 350S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4562	ARTSVIS	 350S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	Seminar
4562	CINE	 350S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4562	CINE	 350S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	Seminar
4562	DOCST	 353S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4562	DOCST	 353S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	Seminar
4562	VMS	 339S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
4562	VMS	 339S	SOUND FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of sound recording techniques and strategies for film and video. Focus on sound/image relationship, sound design and sound acquisition. Screenings and readings will reinforce practice exercises.	Seminar
4567	CINE	395	INTERNSHIP	Students may arrange academic work in conjunction with an approved internship in the moving image industry. Academic work must be with Cinematic Arts faculty and include the university minimum (one research paper) as well as reading from a bibliography and/or a viewing list approved by the instructor in advance. Prerequisite: (one of the following) CINE 201 Intro to Film Studies or VMS 202D Intro to Visual Culture or CINE 301 Moving Image Practice.	(R) Research
4567	CINE	395	INTERNSHIP	Students may arrange academic work in conjunction with an approved internship in the moving image industry. Academic work must be with Cinematic Arts faculty and include the university minimum (one research paper) as well as reading from a bibliography and/or a viewing list approved by the instructor in advance. Prerequisite: (one of the following) CINE 201 Intro to Film Studies or VMS 202D Intro to Visual Culture or CINE 301 Moving Image Practice.	Independent Study
4659	ECS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(NS) Natural Sciences
4659	ECS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(R) Research
4659	ECS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(W) Writing
4659	ECS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	Seminar
4659	ENVIRON	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(NS) Natural Sciences
4659	ENVIRON	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(R) Research
4659	ENVIRON	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(W) Writing
4659	ENVIRON	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	Seminar
4659	EOS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(NS) Natural Sciences
4659	EOS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(R) Research
4659	EOS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	(W) Writing
4659	EOS	 226S	FIELD METH EARTH/ENV SCI	Introduction to basic field methods used in the earth and environmental sciences. Field investigations focus on topics such as groundwater and surface water movements, soil chemistry and identification, topographic and geologic mapping, the atmosphere/soil interface, and plant identification and distributions. Design of a field investigation, collection of data to address a specific goal, and interpretation and reporting of the results. Emphasis on learning to report field results in the format of scientific publications. Visits to five local field sites. Open only to juniors and seniors.	Seminar
4672	ECS	403	NATURAL HISTORY OF YELLOWSTONE	This course is a laboratory and field-trip based examination of the geological history of Yellowstone Country. We will look at the formation and deformational history of the Wyoming Thrust Belt, the volcanic history of the Absaroka Range, the dramatic activity and influence of the arrival of the Yellowstone Hotspot during the Pleistocene (and present day), the complex tectonic and world-famous glacial history of the Grand Tetons, and learn about the unique Eocene lacustrine and fluvial settings of the Wyoming Fossil Basin.	(NS) Natural Sciences
4672	EOS	403	NATURAL HISTORY OF YELLOWSTONE	This course is a laboratory and field-trip based examination of the geological history of Yellowstone Country. We will look at the formation and deformational history of the Wyoming Thrust Belt, the volcanic history of the Absaroka Range, the dramatic activity and influence of the arrival of the Yellowstone Hotspot during the Pleistocene (and present day), the complex tectonic and world-famous glacial history of the Grand Tetons, and learn about the unique Eocene lacustrine and fluvial settings of the Wyoming Fossil Basin.	(NS) Natural Sciences
4764	GERMAN	101	FIRST-YEAR GERMAN I	First-semester introductory language course. Practice in spoken and written German (speaking, listening, reading, writing); introduction to German culture and society through film, music, literature, and other authentic materials. Communicative approach to language study focuses on learning to use German in meaningful contexts across a variety of real-life situations and genres.	(FL) Foreign Language
4766	GERMAN	102	FIRST-YEAR GERMAN II	Second-semester introductory language course. Practice in spoken and written German (speaking, listening, reading, writing); introduction to German culture and society through film, music, literature, and other authentic materials. Communicative approach to language study focuses on learning to use German in meaningful contexts across a variety of real-life situations and genres.	(FL) Foreign Language
4773	GERMAN	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics may vary each semester offered.	Seminar
4773	GERMAN	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics may vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
4775	GERMAN	203	INTERMEDIATE GERMAN I	Intermediate-level German course continuing instruction begun in German 102. Focus on developing German language abilities and expanding cultural knowledge through topic-oriented syllabus on cultures of the German-speaking world. Comprehensive review of grammar, vocabulary building, with continued practice in speaking, reading, listening, and writing. Literary and nonliterary texts from a variety of media provide basis for discussion and cultural awareness. Recommended prerequisite: German 101-102, 111, or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
4775	GERMAN	203	INTERMEDIATE GERMAN I	Intermediate-level German course continuing instruction begun in German 102. Focus on developing German language abilities and expanding cultural knowledge through topic-oriented syllabus on cultures of the German-speaking world. Comprehensive review of grammar, vocabulary building, with continued practice in speaking, reading, listening, and writing. Literary and nonliterary texts from a variety of media provide basis for discussion and cultural awareness. Recommended prerequisite: German 101-102, 111, or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
4777	GERMAN	204	INTERMEDIATE GERMAN II	Intermediate-level German course continuing instruction begun in German 203. Practice in spoken and written German (speaking, listening, reading, writing); introduction to German culture and society through film, music, literature, and other authentic materials. Communicative approach to language study focuses on learning to use German in meaningful contexts across a variety of real-life situations and genres.	(CZ) Civilizations
4777	GERMAN	204	INTERMEDIATE GERMAN II	Intermediate-level German course continuing instruction begun in German 203. Practice in spoken and written German (speaking, listening, reading, writing); introduction to German culture and society through film, music, literature, and other authentic materials. Communicative approach to language study focuses on learning to use German in meaningful contexts across a variety of real-life situations and genres.	(FL) Foreign Language
4796	GERMAN	 305S	ADV GERMAN I: CULTURE/SOCIETY	Development of advanced proficiency in oral and written communication. Expansion and deepening of cultural literacy and interpretive skills by focusing on issues of social, cultural, and political significance in German-speaking countries. Cultural and literary texts from a variety of media and genres analyzed in social and cultural contexts. Intensive work on vocabulary, sentence structure, and patterns of expression. Prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
4796	GERMAN	 305S	ADV GERMAN I: CULTURE/SOCIETY	Development of advanced proficiency in oral and written communication. Expansion and deepening of cultural literacy and interpretive skills by focusing on issues of social, cultural, and political significance in German-speaking countries. Cultural and literary texts from a variety of media and genres analyzed in social and cultural contexts. Intensive work on vocabulary, sentence structure, and patterns of expression. Prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	(CZ) Civilizations
4796	GERMAN	 305S	ADV GERMAN I: CULTURE/SOCIETY	Development of advanced proficiency in oral and written communication. Expansion and deepening of cultural literacy and interpretive skills by focusing on issues of social, cultural, and political significance in German-speaking countries. Cultural and literary texts from a variety of media and genres analyzed in social and cultural contexts. Intensive work on vocabulary, sentence structure, and patterns of expression. Prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	(FL) Foreign Language
4796	GERMAN	 305S	ADV GERMAN I: CULTURE/SOCIETY	Development of advanced proficiency in oral and written communication. Expansion and deepening of cultural literacy and interpretive skills by focusing on issues of social, cultural, and political significance in German-speaking countries. Cultural and literary texts from a variety of media and genres analyzed in social and cultural contexts. Intensive work on vocabulary, sentence structure, and patterns of expression. Prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	Seminar
4845	GERMAN	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Open only to qualified juniors and seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
4925	GREEK	101	ELEMENTARY GREEK	Structure of the language (grammatical forms, syntax, vocabulary, and pronunciation); introduction to reading.	(FL) Foreign Language
4932	GREEK	203	INTERMEDIATE GREEK	Readings in classical Attic prose literature. Prerequisite: Greek 102 or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
4932	GREEK	203	INTERMEDIATE GREEK	Readings in classical Attic prose literature. Prerequisite: Greek 102 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
5020	HOUSECS	59	HOUSE COURSE (SP TOP)	Special topics course. Information about specific sections available in course synopsis. For more about House Courses, visit the following website: https://trinity.duke.edu/house-courses. Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory grading only.	Topics Course
5031	HEBREW	101	ELEMENTARY MODERN HEBREW	Introduction to speaking, understanding, reading, and writing Modern Hebrew.	(FL) Foreign Language
5031	JEWISHST	101	ELEMENTARY MODERN HEBREW	Introduction to speaking, understanding, reading, and writing Modern Hebrew.	(FL) Foreign Language
5033	HEBREW	203	INTERMED MODERN HEBREW	Continuation of Hebrew 102. Speaking, understanding, reading, and writing Modern Hebrew at the intermediate level; exploring Israeli culture through texts and other media. Prerequisite: Hebrew 102 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
5033	HEBREW	203	INTERMED MODERN HEBREW	Continuation of Hebrew 102. Speaking, understanding, reading, and writing Modern Hebrew at the intermediate level; exploring Israeli culture through texts and other media. Prerequisite: Hebrew 102 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
5033	JEWISHST	203	INTERMED MODERN HEBREW	Continuation of Hebrew 102. Speaking, understanding, reading, and writing Modern Hebrew at the intermediate level; exploring Israeli culture through texts and other media. Prerequisite: Hebrew 102 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
5033	JEWISHST	203	INTERMED MODERN HEBREW	Continuation of Hebrew 102. Speaking, understanding, reading, and writing Modern Hebrew at the intermediate level; exploring Israeli culture through texts and other media. Prerequisite: Hebrew 102 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
5048	HINDI	101	ELEMENTARY HINDI	This course will provide students with knowledge and understanding of the Hindi language and Indian culture. The major goal is to develop practical ability to communicate in Hindi for day-to-day needs. Topics include the Hindi script, basic grammar and sentence structure, and development of language skills in reading, writing, listening, and speaking. No previous knowledge of Hindi required.This is a service-learning course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices.	(FL) Foreign Language
5053	HINDI	 203D	INTERMEDIATE HINDI	Students will practice all language skills, including reading, writing, listening, and speaking. Students will learn to communicate and describe their surroundings in all tenses, follow Bollywood movies, short stories, and news articles. The focus is on Indian culture and diversity. This is a service-learning course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: Hindi 102 or a placement test.	(CZ) Civilizations
5053	HINDI	 203D	INTERMEDIATE HINDI	Students will practice all language skills, including reading, writing, listening, and speaking. Students will learn to communicate and describe their surroundings in all tenses, follow Bollywood movies, short stories, and news articles. The focus is on Indian culture and diversity. This is a service-learning course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: Hindi 102 or a placement test.	(FL) Foreign Language
5056	HINDI	305	ADVANCED HINDI	Proficiency in reading, writing, and speaking. Prerequisite: Hindi 204 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
5056	HINDI	305	ADVANCED HINDI	Proficiency in reading, writing, and speaking. Prerequisite: Hindi 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5056	HINDI	305	ADVANCED HINDI	Proficiency in reading, writing, and speaking. Prerequisite: Hindi 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
5088	HISTORY	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
5088	HISTORY	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
5137	HISTORY	279	MODERN TERRORISM	An exploration into the problems associated with terrorism in the modern era. The subject will be treated historically, chronologically and thematically, with emphasis on the 19th and 20th centuries. We shall also be examining three main geographic areas -- Europe, Russia and the U. S. Comparisons will therefore be made of the different genres of terrorisms that have functioned in these and other localities, including Latin America and Africa. We conclude with the road to 9/11.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5137	HISTORY	279	MODERN TERRORISM	An exploration into the problems associated with terrorism in the modern era. The subject will be treated historically, chronologically and thematically, with emphasis on the 19th and 20th centuries. We shall also be examining three main geographic areas -- Europe, Russia and the U. S. Comparisons will therefore be made of the different genres of terrorisms that have functioned in these and other localities, including Latin America and Africa. We conclude with the road to 9/11.	(CZ) Civilizations
5137	ICS	276	MODERN TERRORISM	An exploration into the problems associated with terrorism in the modern era. The subject will be treated historically, chronologically and thematically, with emphasis on the 19th and 20th centuries. We shall also be examining three main geographic areas -- Europe, Russia and the U. S. Comparisons will therefore be made of the different genres of terrorisms that have functioned in these and other localities, including Latin America and Africa. We conclude with the road to 9/11.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5137	ICS	276	MODERN TERRORISM	An exploration into the problems associated with terrorism in the modern era. The subject will be treated historically, chronologically and thematically, with emphasis on the 19th and 20th centuries. We shall also be examining three main geographic areas -- Europe, Russia and the U. S. Comparisons will therefore be made of the different genres of terrorisms that have functioned in these and other localities, including Latin America and Africa. We conclude with the road to 9/11.	(CZ) Civilizations
5147	HISTORY	390	TOPICS IN HISTORY LECTURE	Individual courses in this series may be taught more than once or on a one-time basis only.	Topics Course
5211	AAAS	218	CARIBBEAN 1492-1700	The Caribbean region from the arrival of Columbus (1492) to the emergence of sugar and slavery as powerful shapers of society and culture, by 1700.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5211	AAAS	218	CARIBBEAN 1492-1700	The Caribbean region from the arrival of Columbus (1492) to the emergence of sugar and slavery as powerful shapers of society and culture, by 1700.	(CZ) Civilizations
5211	HISTORY	318	CARIBBEAN 1492-1700	The Caribbean region from the arrival of Columbus (1492) to the emergence of sugar and slavery as powerful shapers of society and culture, by 1700.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5211	HISTORY	318	CARIBBEAN 1492-1700	The Caribbean region from the arrival of Columbus (1492) to the emergence of sugar and slavery as powerful shapers of society and culture, by 1700.	(CZ) Civilizations
5211	MEDREN	255	CARIBBEAN 1492-1700	The Caribbean region from the arrival of Columbus (1492) to the emergence of sugar and slavery as powerful shapers of society and culture, by 1700.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5211	MEDREN	255	CARIBBEAN 1492-1700	The Caribbean region from the arrival of Columbus (1492) to the emergence of sugar and slavery as powerful shapers of society and culture, by 1700.	(CZ) Civilizations
5241	HISTORY	257	RELIGION/REFORM/VIOLENCE	The interplay of social, economic, and political developments in Central Europe from the eve of the Reformation to the end of the Thirty Years' War, with particular attention to the links between religion, gender, and the social order.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5241	HISTORY	257	RELIGION/REFORM/VIOLENCE	The interplay of social, economic, and political developments in Central Europe from the eve of the Reformation to the end of the Thirty Years' War, with particular attention to the links between religion, gender, and the social order.	(CZ) Civilizations
5241	MEDREN	281	RELIGION/REFORM/VIOLENCE	The interplay of social, economic, and political developments in Central Europe from the eve of the Reformation to the end of the Thirty Years' War, with particular attention to the links between religion, gender, and the social order.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5241	MEDREN	281	RELIGION/REFORM/VIOLENCE	The interplay of social, economic, and political developments in Central Europe from the eve of the Reformation to the end of the Thirty Years' War, with particular attention to the links between religion, gender, and the social order.	(CZ) Civilizations
5257	AMES	167	ANCIENT AND EARLY MODERN JAPAN	Japan from earliest settlement to 1868; the Heian Court, rise of the samurai, feudal society and culture, the Tokugawa age, and the Meiji Restoration.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5257	AMES	167	ANCIENT AND EARLY MODERN JAPAN	Japan from earliest settlement to 1868; the Heian Court, rise of the samurai, feudal society and culture, the Tokugawa age, and the Meiji Restoration.	(CZ) Civilizations
5257	HISTORY	226	ANCIENT AND EARLY MODERN JAPAN	Japan from earliest settlement to 1868; the Heian Court, rise of the samurai, feudal society and culture, the Tokugawa age, and the Meiji Restoration.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5257	HISTORY	226	ANCIENT AND EARLY MODERN JAPAN	Japan from earliest settlement to 1868; the Heian Court, rise of the samurai, feudal society and culture, the Tokugawa age, and the Meiji Restoration.	(CZ) Civilizations
5295	HISTORY	324	MEXICO SINCE BEFORE CORTES	Survey of Mexican history since before the encounter between European and native peoples, the experience of conquest, independence rebellions, liberal reforms, revolution, and modernization.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5295	HISTORY	324	MEXICO SINCE BEFORE CORTES	Survey of Mexican history since before the encounter between European and native peoples, the experience of conquest, independence rebellions, liberal reforms, revolution, and modernization.	(CZ) Civilizations
5295	LATAMER	223	MEXICO SINCE BEFORE CORTES	Survey of Mexican history since before the encounter between European and native peoples, the experience of conquest, independence rebellions, liberal reforms, revolution, and modernization.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5295	LATAMER	223	MEXICO SINCE BEFORE CORTES	Survey of Mexican history since before the encounter between European and native peoples, the experience of conquest, independence rebellions, liberal reforms, revolution, and modernization.	(CZ) Civilizations
5295	ROMST	324	MEXICO SINCE BEFORE CORTES	Survey of Mexican history since before the encounter between European and native peoples, the experience of conquest, independence rebellions, liberal reforms, revolution, and modernization.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5295	ROMST	324	MEXICO SINCE BEFORE CORTES	Survey of Mexican history since before the encounter between European and native peoples, the experience of conquest, independence rebellions, liberal reforms, revolution, and modernization.	(CZ) Civilizations
5338	AAAS	209	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5338	AAAS	209	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CZ) Civilizations
5338	AAAS	209	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(R) Research
5338	HISTORY	327	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5338	HISTORY	327	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CZ) Civilizations
5338	HISTORY	327	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(R) Research
5338	PORTUGUE	260	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5338	PORTUGUE	260	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CZ) Civilizations
5338	PORTUGUE	260	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(R) Research
5338	RIGHTS	327	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5338	RIGHTS	327	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(CZ) Civilizations
5338	RIGHTS	327	AFRO-BRAZIL CULTURE/HST	Slavery and the post-emancipation trajectory of Afro-Brazilians in a racist society that officially proclaims itself a 'racial democracy.' Comparisons drawn with the Afro-American experience elsewhere in Latin America and the United States.	(R) Research
5378	HISTORY	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Fall semester research independent study. Usually undertaken by students concurrently with the Honors Seminar, or with an instructor with whom they have had a course. Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
5378	HISTORY	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Fall semester research independent study. Usually undertaken by students concurrently with the Honors Seminar, or with an instructor with whom they have had a course. Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
5385	HISTORY	 495S	SENIOR THESIS SEMINAR	Designed to introduce qualified students to advanced methods of historical research and writing, and to the appraisal of critical historical issues. Open only to seniors, but not restricted to candidates for graduation with distinction. This course, when taken by a history major, is accompanied by either a year-long 490S-196S seminar, two courses at the 200 level, or 393-394 independent study, supervised by an instructor	(CZ) Civilizations
5385	HISTORY	 495S	SENIOR THESIS SEMINAR	Designed to introduce qualified students to advanced methods of historical research and writing, and to the appraisal of critical historical issues. Open only to seniors, but not restricted to candidates for graduation with distinction. This course, when taken by a history major, is accompanied by either a year-long 490S-196S seminar, two courses at the 200 level, or 393-394 independent study, supervised by an instructor	(R) Research
5385	HISTORY	 495S	SENIOR THESIS SEMINAR	Designed to introduce qualified students to advanced methods of historical research and writing, and to the appraisal of critical historical issues. Open only to seniors, but not restricted to candidates for graduation with distinction. This course, when taken by a history major, is accompanied by either a year-long 490S-196S seminar, two courses at the 200 level, or 393-394 independent study, supervised by an instructor	(W) Writing
5385	HISTORY	 495S	SENIOR THESIS SEMINAR	Designed to introduce qualified students to advanced methods of historical research and writing, and to the appraisal of critical historical issues. Open only to seniors, but not restricted to candidates for graduation with distinction. This course, when taken by a history major, is accompanied by either a year-long 490S-196S seminar, two courses at the 200 level, or 393-394 independent study, supervised by an instructor	Seminar
5716	ITALIAN	101	ELEMENTARY ITALIAN 1	Introduction to Italian language, culture and society through its peoples' products, practices and perspectives. Students will interact with a wide variety of multimodal texts and materials and engage in communicative activities with real world relevance. Equal attention to listening, speaking, reading, writing in order to build a solid foundation that allows students to interact with communities of speakers extending beyond the classroom. Conducted in Italian 4 class meetings a week.	(FL) Foreign Language
5718	ITALIAN	102	ELEMENTARY ITALIAN 2	Continues the study of Italian language, culture and society expanding on work done in 101. Students will consolidate and develop their ability to engage with Italian speakers in varied social interactions, share opinions on personal and societal topics, and develop intercultural competence by engaging with authentic multimodal texts, materials and activities. Equal attention to listening, speaking, reading, writing. Conducted in Italian 4 class meetings a week.	(FL) Foreign Language
5725	ITALIAN	203	INTERMEDIATE ITALIAN	Building on the elementary sequence, this course is more in-depth exploration of Italian language, culture, and society through a multimodal project-based and collaborative approach. Students will interact with a wide variety of written, oral, and visual texts (mass and social media, literature, film, music art) to observe, document and reflect on Italian society, culture, and perspectives, comparing them to their own. Equal emphasis on speaking, listening, reading and writing and development of intercultural competence. Conducted in Italian, 3 class meetings a week.	(CZ) Civilizations
5725	ITALIAN	203	INTERMEDIATE ITALIAN	Building on the elementary sequence, this course is more in-depth exploration of Italian language, culture, and society through a multimodal project-based and collaborative approach. Students will interact with a wide variety of written, oral, and visual texts (mass and social media, literature, film, music art) to observe, document and reflect on Italian society, culture, and perspectives, comparing them to their own. Equal emphasis on speaking, listening, reading and writing and development of intercultural competence. Conducted in Italian, 3 class meetings a week.	(FL) Foreign Language
5729	ITALIAN	 301S	INTRO TO ITALIAN STUDIES	Introduction to Italian literature, thought and cultural practices. Focus on one or more authors, genres, social and political movements, cultural institutions, from middle ages to present, exposing students to a range of critical and theoretical tools. Engagement with social, political and philosophical issues and debates of enduring importance within literary and cultural texts and traditions. Strong emphasis on development of composition skills, writing and discourse strategies, vocabulary development, rhetorical techniques and conventions. Prerequisite: an Italian 200 level FL course or above.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
5729	ITALIAN	 301S	INTRO TO ITALIAN STUDIES	Introduction to Italian literature, thought and cultural practices. Focus on one or more authors, genres, social and political movements, cultural institutions, from middle ages to present, exposing students to a range of critical and theoretical tools. Engagement with social, political and philosophical issues and debates of enduring importance within literary and cultural texts and traditions. Strong emphasis on development of composition skills, writing and discourse strategies, vocabulary development, rhetorical techniques and conventions. Prerequisite: an Italian 200 level FL course or above.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5729	ITALIAN	 301S	INTRO TO ITALIAN STUDIES	Introduction to Italian literature, thought and cultural practices. Focus on one or more authors, genres, social and political movements, cultural institutions, from middle ages to present, exposing students to a range of critical and theoretical tools. Engagement with social, political and philosophical issues and debates of enduring importance within literary and cultural texts and traditions. Strong emphasis on development of composition skills, writing and discourse strategies, vocabulary development, rhetorical techniques and conventions. Prerequisite: an Italian 200 level FL course or above.	(FL) Foreign Language
5729	ITALIAN	 301S	INTRO TO ITALIAN STUDIES	Introduction to Italian literature, thought and cultural practices. Focus on one or more authors, genres, social and political movements, cultural institutions, from middle ages to present, exposing students to a range of critical and theoretical tools. Engagement with social, political and philosophical issues and debates of enduring importance within literary and cultural texts and traditions. Strong emphasis on development of composition skills, writing and discourse strategies, vocabulary development, rhetorical techniques and conventions. Prerequisite: an Italian 200 level FL course or above.	(W) Writing
5729	ITALIAN	 301S	INTRO TO ITALIAN STUDIES	Introduction to Italian literature, thought and cultural practices. Focus on one or more authors, genres, social and political movements, cultural institutions, from middle ages to present, exposing students to a range of critical and theoretical tools. Engagement with social, political and philosophical issues and debates of enduring importance within literary and cultural texts and traditions. Strong emphasis on development of composition skills, writing and discourse strategies, vocabulary development, rhetorical techniques and conventions. Prerequisite: an Italian 200 level FL course or above.	Seminar
5769	ITALIAN	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
5769	ITALIAN	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
5771	ITALIAN	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Italian 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
5771	ITALIAN	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Italian 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
5787	JPN	101	ELEMENTARY JAPANESE	Introduction to speaking, listening, reading, and writing.	(FL) Foreign Language
5795	JPN	203	INTERMEDIATE JAPANESE	Continuation of Japanese 102.  Continued development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing.  Cultural component emphasized through short readings.	(CZ) Civilizations
5795	JPN	203	INTERMEDIATE JAPANESE	Continuation of Japanese 102.  Continued development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing.  Cultural component emphasized through short readings.	(FL) Foreign Language
5800	JPN	305	ADVANCED JAPANESE	Readings and other materials, including video. Exercises in composition and conversation.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
5800	JPN	305	ADVANCED JAPANESE	Readings and other materials, including video. Exercises in composition and conversation.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5800	JPN	305	ADVANCED JAPANESE	Readings and other materials, including video. Exercises in composition and conversation.	(FL) Foreign Language
5811	JPN	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual study of language for conducting research involving sources written or spoken in the language. Students have to submit a proposal describing the purported research, types of sources to be analyzed, and kinds of language knowledge or skills they need to be equipped with. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
5820	KOREAN	101	ELEMENTARY KOREAN	Introduces sounds of spoken Korean, the writing system, foundational grammar, and socio-linguistic and cultural practices for communication of everyday service needs and basic information. Designed for true beginners with no prior knowledge of Korean. Students should contact instructor for a permission number to verify the requisite beginner status.	(FL) Foreign Language
5823	KOREAN	203	INTERMEDIATE KOREAN	Develops skills for reading and responding to narrative and descriptive texts, advances conversational fluency, and cultivates socio-linguistic and cultural awareness for interaction involving different social relationships. Popular media as well as folktales are introduced for exposure to authentic language use and for discussion of evolving cultural norms and perspectives. Recommended prerequisite: Korean 102 or equivalent (ability to manage face-to-face service encounters and everyday conversation and to comprehend complex sentences and simple multi-sentence texts). Students with equivalent preparation to the prerequisite course should contact instructor for a permission number.	(FL) Foreign Language
5826	KOREAN	305	ADVANCED KOREAN	Expands interpersonal, interpretive and presentational skills of communication on enduring social and cultural topics, such as food or Chunhyang stories, with grounded understanding with historical and transnational perspectives. Course reading and materials introduce and analyze historical changes, cultural practices, and ethical issues revolving around the topics, which students explore further in individual and group projects. Recommended prerequisite: Korean 204 or equivalent (fluency in speaking, familiarity with culture, some experience in reading and ability to write a short description).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
5826	KOREAN	305	ADVANCED KOREAN	Expands interpersonal, interpretive and presentational skills of communication on enduring social and cultural topics, such as food or Chunhyang stories, with grounded understanding with historical and transnational perspectives. Course reading and materials introduce and analyze historical changes, cultural practices, and ethical issues revolving around the topics, which students explore further in individual and group projects. Recommended prerequisite: Korean 204 or equivalent (fluency in speaking, familiarity with culture, some experience in reading and ability to write a short description).	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
5826	KOREAN	305	ADVANCED KOREAN	Expands interpersonal, interpretive and presentational skills of communication on enduring social and cultural topics, such as food or Chunhyang stories, with grounded understanding with historical and transnational perspectives. Course reading and materials introduce and analyze historical changes, cultural practices, and ethical issues revolving around the topics, which students explore further in individual and group projects. Recommended prerequisite: Korean 204 or equivalent (fluency in speaking, familiarity with culture, some experience in reading and ability to write a short description).	(FL) Foreign Language
5832	LATIN	101	ELEMENTARY LATIN	Study of the structure of the language (i.e., forms, vocabulary, syntax, and pronunciation); selected readings in prose and poetry.	(FL) Foreign Language
5836	LATIN	203	INTERMEDIATE LATIN	Readings in Latin literature: Cicero, Livy, Pliny the Younger, and Ovid. Review of grammar essentials accompanies students' transition to reading some of the Latin greats.	(CZ) Civilizations
5836	LATIN	203	INTERMEDIATE LATIN	Readings in Latin literature: Cicero, Livy, Pliny the Younger, and Ovid. Review of grammar essentials accompanies students' transition to reading some of the Latin greats.	(FL) Foreign Language
6284	CULANTH	201	INTRO TO LINGUISTICS	Introduction to the scientific study of linguistics and languages. Topics include the origin and nature of language, methods of historical and comparative linguistics, theories and schools of linguistics, empirical and descriptive approaches to the study of language, including phonology, morphology, semantics, and syntax.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
6284	CULANTH	201	INTRO TO LINGUISTICS	Introduction to the scientific study of linguistics and languages. Topics include the origin and nature of language, methods of historical and comparative linguistics, theories and schools of linguistics, empirical and descriptive approaches to the study of language, including phonology, morphology, semantics, and syntax.	(SS) Social Sciences
6284	LINGUIST	201	INTRO TO LINGUISTICS	Introduction to the scientific study of linguistics and languages. Topics include the origin and nature of language, methods of historical and comparative linguistics, theories and schools of linguistics, empirical and descriptive approaches to the study of language, including phonology, morphology, semantics, and syntax.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
6284	LINGUIST	201	INTRO TO LINGUISTICS	Introduction to the scientific study of linguistics and languages. Topics include the origin and nature of language, methods of historical and comparative linguistics, theories and schools of linguistics, empirical and descriptive approaches to the study of language, including phonology, morphology, semantics, and syntax.	(SS) Social Sciences
6298	LIT	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
6298	LIT	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
6449	ARTHIST	238	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
6449	ARTHIST	238	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
6449	ARTHIST	238	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
6449	ARTHIST	238	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
6449	ENGLISH	386	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
6449	ENGLISH	386	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
6449	ENGLISH	386	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
6449	ENGLISH	386	SCIENCE FICTION FILM	Science fiction film from the 1950s to the present. From talking apes to mind control, forbidden planets to genetic dystopias, alien invasions to travel in time and space, an exploration of classic films in the genre with attention to how the films imagine the relationships among science, politics, and society over time. Attention to visual as well as literary story telling.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
6535	ME	490	SPECIAL TOPICS	Study arranged on a special engineering topic in which the faculty has particular interest and competence as a result of research and professional activities. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Topics Course
6794	MMS	450	MARKETS/MGMNT CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Markets and Management Studies Program. Includes review of major perspectives and concepts from the program's core courses, plus a team project involving business plans or alternatively a strategic plan to identify and resolve problems confronting actual companies, industries, and communities. Students also develop a case study research paper of a product, firm, industry, occupation, country, or region. Consent of Director of Markets and Management Studies Program required.	(R) Research
6794	MMS	450	MARKETS/MGMNT CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Markets and Management Studies Program. Includes review of major perspectives and concepts from the program's core courses, plus a team project involving business plans or alternatively a strategic plan to identify and resolve problems confronting actual companies, industries, and communities. Students also develop a case study research paper of a product, firm, industry, occupation, country, or region. Consent of Director of Markets and Management Studies Program required.	(SS) Social Sciences
6842	MILITSCI	 101S	INTRODUCTION TO THE ARMY	Introduces students to the personal challenges/competencies critical for effective leadership and communication. Students learn fundamentals of Army organization, basic Soldier skills, as well as critical thinking fundamentals and how they apply to the Army context. The course teaches how development of personal skills (cultural understanding, goal setting, time management, stress management, and fitness) relate to leadership, and the Profession of Arms. Army leadership dimensions, attributes, and core leader competencies also discussed.	Seminar
6853	MILITSCI	 401S	THE ARMY OFFICER	Explores dynamics of leading in complex situations of current military operations. Examines differences in customs/courtesies, military law, principles of war, and rules of engagement. Explores aspects of interacting with non-government organizations, civilians on the battlefield, decision making processes, and host nation support. Emphasis placed on preparing students for Basic Officer Leadership Course and first unit of assignment. Uses mission command case studies/scenarios to prepare students to face complex ethical demands of serving an officer in the Army. Instructor consent required. Prerequisite: Military Science 301 and 302.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
6853	MILITSCI	 401S	THE ARMY OFFICER	Explores dynamics of leading in complex situations of current military operations. Examines differences in customs/courtesies, military law, principles of war, and rules of engagement. Explores aspects of interacting with non-government organizations, civilians on the battlefield, decision making processes, and host nation support. Emphasis placed on preparing students for Basic Officer Leadership Course and first unit of assignment. Uses mission command case studies/scenarios to prepare students to face complex ethical demands of serving an officer in the Army. Instructor consent required. Prerequisite: Military Science 301 and 302.	Seminar
6855	MILITSCI	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual study under direct faculty supervision. Written consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies is required.	Independent Study
6859	MATH	 105L	LAB CALC/FUNCTIONS I	A study of functions with applications, and an introduction to differential calculus, with a laboratory component. Topics include a review of algebra and functions, mathematical modeling with elementary functions, rates of change, inverse functions, logarithms and exponential functions, the derivative, graphical interpretations of the derivative, optimization, related rates. Not open to students who have credit for Mathematics 21 or 111L(31L) or 121.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6860	MATH	 106L	LAB CALC/FUNCTIONS II	A continuation of Mathematics 105L. Topics include zeros of functions, antidifferentiation, initial value problems, differential equations, Euler's method, slope fields, review of trigonometry, modeling with trigonometric functions, Riemann sums, the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, integration by substitution, integration by parts, separation of variables, systems of differential equations. Students who complete this course can enroll in Mathematics 112L. Prerequisite: Mathematics 105L. Not open to students who have credit for Mathematics 21 or 111L or 121.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6863	MATH	 111L	LABORATORY CALCULUS I	Introductory calculus with a laboratory component. Emphasis on laboratory projects, group work, and written reports. Differentiation, transcendental functions, optimization, differential equations, numerical approximations, Euler's method, the Fundamental Theorem, separation of variables, slope fields, and mathematical modeling. Not open to students who have credit for Mathematics 105L, 106L, or 121. Registration contingent on proctored Calculus I Placement Test on the first day of class.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6868	MATH	 112L	LABORATORY CALCULUS II	Second semester of introductory calculus with a laboratory component. Emphasis on laboratory projects, group work, and written reports. Methods of integration, applications of integrals, functions defined by integration, improper integrals, introduction to probability and distributions, infinite series, Taylor polynomials, series solutions of differential equations, systems of differential equations, Fourier series. Not open to students who have had Mathematics 122 or 122L. Prerequisite: Mathematics 106L or 111L (AP/IPC/PMC placement credit for Math 21 is not sufficient if Math 122L is offered) or consent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6874	MATH	 122L	INTRO CALCULUS II WITH APPLICA	Topics include sequences and series, the definition of the integral and its uses, Taylor and Fourier Series, differential equations and mathematical models. Weekly labs will involve explorations of applications, techniques, and Theory. Prerequisite: Advanced placement credit for Mathematics 21. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 105L, 106L, 111L, 112L, or 122.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6875	MATH	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
6875	MATH	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
6881	MATH	212	MULTIVARIABLE CALCULUS	Partial differentiation, multiple integrals, and topics in differential and integral vector calculus, including Green's theorem, the divergence theorem, and Stokes's theorem. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 202, 219, or 222. Prerequisite: Mathematics 22, 112L, 122, or 122L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6885	MATH	221	LINEAR ALGEBRA & APPLICA	Systems of linear equations and elementary row operations, Euclidean n-space and subspaces, linear transformations and matrix representations, Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization process, determinants, eigenvectors and eigenvalues; applications. Introduction to proofs. A gateway to more advanced math courses. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 216 or 218. Recommended prerequisite: Mathematics 122, 112L or 122L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6897	MATH	 323S	GEOMETRY	Euclidean geometry, inverse and projective geometries, topology (Mbius strips, Klein bottle, projective space), and non-Euclidean geometries in two and three dimensions; contributions of Euclid, Gauss, Lobachevsky, Bolyai, Riemann, and Hilbert.  Research project and paper required.  Prerequisite: Mathematics 122, 112L, 122L, or consent of instructor.	(R) Research
6897	MATH	 323S	GEOMETRY	Euclidean geometry, inverse and projective geometries, topology (Mbius strips, Klein bottle, projective space), and non-Euclidean geometries in two and three dimensions; contributions of Euclid, Gauss, Lobachevsky, Bolyai, Riemann, and Hilbert.  Research project and paper required.  Prerequisite: Mathematics 122, 112L, 122L, or consent of instructor.	Seminar
6898	MATH	371	COMBINATORICS	Permutations and combinations, generating functions, recurrence relations; topics in enumeration theory, including the Principle of Inclusion-Exclusion and Polya Theory; topics in graph theory, including trees, circuits, and matrix representations; applications.  Prerequisite: Mathematics 122, 112L, 122L or consent of instructor.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6899	MATH	375	LINEAR PROGRAMMING	Fundamental properties of linear programs; linear inequalities and convex sets; primal simplex method, duality; integer programming; two-person and matrix games.  Prerequisite: Mathematics 221 or equivalence.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6901	MATH	 305S	NUMBER THEORY	Divisibility properties of integers, prime numbers, congruences, quadratic reciprocity, number-theoretic functions, simple continued fractions, rational approximations; contributions of Fermat, Euler, and Gauss. Prerequisite: Mathematics 122, 112L, 122L, or consent of instructor. Individual research paper required.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6901	MATH	 305S	NUMBER THEORY	Divisibility properties of integers, prime numbers, congruences, quadratic reciprocity, number-theoretic functions, simple continued fractions, rational approximations; contributions of Fermat, Euler, and Gauss. Prerequisite: Mathematics 122, 112L, 122L, or consent of instructor. Individual research paper required.	(R) Research
6901	MATH	 305S	NUMBER THEORY	Divisibility properties of integers, prime numbers, congruences, quadratic reciprocity, number-theoretic functions, simple continued fractions, rational approximations; contributions of Fermat, Euler, and Gauss. Prerequisite: Mathematics 122, 112L, 122L, or consent of instructor. Individual research paper required.	Seminar
6902	MATH	356	ELEM DIFFERENTIAL EQUAT	First and second order differential equations with applications; linear systems of differential equations; Fourier series and applications to partial differential equations. Additional topics may include stability, nonlinear systems, bifurcations, or numerical methods. Not open to students who have had Mathematics 216 or Mathematics 353. Recommended prerequisite: Mathematics 218 or 221 and one of 202, 212, or 222.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6905	MATH	230	PROBABILITY	Probability models, random variables with discrete and continuous distributions. Independence, joint distributions, conditional distributions. Expectations, functions of random variables, central limit theorem. Prerequisite: Calculus II (Mathematics 22, 112L, 122, or 122L) OR credit for multivariable calculus (Mathematics 202, 212, 219, or 222) OR graduate student standing. Not open to students who have credit for Mathematics 340.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6905	STA	230	PROBABILITY	Probability models, random variables with discrete and continuous distributions. Independence, joint distributions, conditional distributions. Expectations, functions of random variables, central limit theorem. Prerequisite: Calculus II (Mathematics 22, 112L, 122, or 122L) OR credit for multivariable calculus (Mathematics 202, 212, 219, or 222) OR graduate student standing. Not open to students who have credit for Mathematics 340.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6910	MATH	431	INTRODUCTION TO REAL ANALYSIS	Algebraic and topological structure of the real number system; rigorous development of one-variable calculus including continuous, differentiable, and Riemann integrable functions and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; uniform convergence of a sequence of functions; contributions of Newton, Leibniz, Cauchy, Riemann, and Weierstrass. Students intending to continue studying mathematics at a graduate level are encouraged to take Math 531 instead of this class. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 531. Recommended prerequisite: Mathematics 202, 212, or 222.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6910	MATH	431	INTRODUCTION TO REAL ANALYSIS	Algebraic and topological structure of the real number system; rigorous development of one-variable calculus including continuous, differentiable, and Riemann integrable functions and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; uniform convergence of a sequence of functions; contributions of Newton, Leibniz, Cauchy, Riemann, and Weierstrass. Students intending to continue studying mathematics at a graduate level are encouraged to take Math 531 instead of this class. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 531. Recommended prerequisite: Mathematics 202, 212, or 222.	(W) Writing
6913	MATH	 281S	PROBLEM SOLVING SEMINAR	Techniques for attacking and solving challenging mathematics problems and writing mathematical proofs. Course may be repeated. Consent of instructor required.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6913	MATH	 281S	PROBLEM SOLVING SEMINAR	Techniques for attacking and solving challenging mathematics problems and writing mathematical proofs. Course may be repeated. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
6919	MATH	333	COMPLEX ANALYSIS	Complex numbers, analytic functions, complex integration, Taylor and Laurent series, theory of residues, argument and maximum principles, conformal mapping. Prerequisite: Mathematics 212 or 222 as well as Mathematics 221, or consent of instructor.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
6922	MATH	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
6923	MATH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
6923	MATH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
6924	MATH	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Same as Mathematics 391, but for seniors. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
6925	MATH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Same as Mathematics 393, but for seniors. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
6925	MATH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Same as Mathematics 393, but for seniors. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
7018	MUSIC	 190FS	FOCUS SEMINAR (TOPICS)	Topics vary each semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
7018	MUSIC	 190FS	FOCUS SEMINAR (TOPICS)	Topics vary each semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Topics Course
7027	MUSIC	261	THEOR/PRAC TONAL MUS I	Diatonic harmony; two-part species counterpoint; introduction to classical form and composition of small forms; analysis of popular music and study of popular idioms; and aural skills including singing, dictation, keyboard harmony, and score reading.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7063	MUSIC	 210-2	WIND SYMPHONY	Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7076	MUSIC	461	THEOR/PRAC TONAL MUS III	Tonal music using advanced chromaticism; analysis of larger classical forms and popular idioms; composition of large-scale instrumental forms, song forms, and projects modeling 19th and 20th century tonality; and aural skills including singing, dictation, keyboard harmony, and score reading.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7090	MUSIC	318	INSTRUMENTAL CONDUCTING	Development of techniques of conducting instrumental ensembles with emphasis on orchestral repertoire. Score-reading and analysis, principles of interpretation, and practical conducting experience. Prerequisite: Music 361 and consent of instructor. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7101	CULANTH	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7101	CULANTH	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7101	CULANTH	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(CZ) Civilizations
7101	CULANTH	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(R) Research
7101	CULANTH	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(W) Writing
7101	MUSIC	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7101	MUSIC	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7101	MUSIC	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(CZ) Civilizations
7101	MUSIC	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(R) Research
7101	MUSIC	137	MUSIC/SOCIAL LIFE/SCENES	Study of musical styles and performance practices in relation to issues of identity and other aspects of social life; focus on the diverse local musical scenes and traditions and on learning through doing original fieldwork.	(W) Writing
7118	MUSIC	 273S	INTRO TO ELECTRONIC MUSIC	Introduction to composing electronic music using variety of software such as Logic, ProTools, Ableton, Audacity, Max/MSP, SuperCollider, etc. Concepts covered include recording/editing/mixing; plugin FX; MIDI; sampling; synthesis, etc. Readings and listening assignments explore history of electronic music. Course relevant to wide array of student musical interests, from experimental to EDM.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7118	MUSIC	 273S	INTRO TO ELECTRONIC MUSIC	Introduction to composing electronic music using variety of software such as Logic, ProTools, Ableton, Audacity, Max/MSP, SuperCollider, etc. Concepts covered include recording/editing/mixing; plugin FX; MIDI; sampling; synthesis, etc. Readings and listening assignments explore history of electronic music. Course relevant to wide array of student musical interests, from experimental to EDM.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
7118	MUSIC	 273S	INTRO TO ELECTRONIC MUSIC	Introduction to composing electronic music using variety of software such as Logic, ProTools, Ableton, Audacity, Max/MSP, SuperCollider, etc. Concepts covered include recording/editing/mixing; plugin FX; MIDI; sampling; synthesis, etc. Readings and listening assignments explore history of electronic music. Course relevant to wide array of student musical interests, from experimental to EDM.	Seminar
7119	MEDREN	 201S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7119	MEDREN	 201S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7119	MEDREN	 201S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(CZ) Civilizations
7119	MEDREN	 201S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	Seminar
7119	MUSIC	 255S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7119	MUSIC	 255S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7119	MUSIC	 255S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(CZ) Civilizations
7119	MUSIC	 255S	MUSIC HISTORY I	The history of music in medieval and early Europe in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	Seminar
7122	MUSIC	257	MUSIC HISTORY III	The history of music in nineteenth-century through post-WWI Europe and the United States in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7122	MUSIC	257	MUSIC HISTORY III	The history of music in nineteenth-century through post-WWI Europe and the United States in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7122	MUSIC	257	MUSIC HISTORY III	The history of music in nineteenth-century through post-WWI Europe and the United States in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(CZ) Civilizations
7122	MUSIC	257	MUSIC HISTORY III	The history of music in nineteenth-century through post-WWI Europe and the United States in its cultural and social context. Prerequisite: Music 261 or consent of instructor.	(R) Research
7125	MUSIC	 481T	ADVANCED COMPOSITION	Individual weekly sessions for advanced students. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Music 281S and 381S or consent of instructor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7125	MUSIC	 481T	ADVANCED COMPOSITION	Individual weekly sessions for advanced students. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Music 281S and 381S or consent of instructor.	(R) Research
7125	MUSIC	 481T	ADVANCED COMPOSITION	Individual weekly sessions for advanced students. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Music 281S and 381S or consent of instructor.	Tutorial
7133	CINE	139	THE HOLLYWOOD MUSICAL	Beyond its unapologetic praise of spectacularity and entertainment, what makes the Hollywood film musical a quintessential American genre? Since its origins, the Hollywood musical has been channelling various ideologies in its modes of performance and production; it has offered a space to address specific anxieties of the American society: modernity vs. nostalgia, representations of gender, ethnicity, class, and the low/high divide in arts. Emphasis will be given on its performative aspects, the relationship between choreography and song, the changing representations of the dancing body, musical styles, sexual objectification and the star persona.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7133	CINE	139	THE HOLLYWOOD MUSICAL	Beyond its unapologetic praise of spectacularity and entertainment, what makes the Hollywood film musical a quintessential American genre? Since its origins, the Hollywood musical has been channelling various ideologies in its modes of performance and production; it has offered a space to address specific anxieties of the American society: modernity vs. nostalgia, representations of gender, ethnicity, class, and the low/high divide in arts. Emphasis will be given on its performative aspects, the relationship between choreography and song, the changing representations of the dancing body, musical styles, sexual objectification and the star persona.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7133	MUSIC	141	THE HOLLYWOOD MUSICAL	Beyond its unapologetic praise of spectacularity and entertainment, what makes the Hollywood film musical a quintessential American genre? Since its origins, the Hollywood musical has been channelling various ideologies in its modes of performance and production; it has offered a space to address specific anxieties of the American society: modernity vs. nostalgia, representations of gender, ethnicity, class, and the low/high divide in arts. Emphasis will be given on its performative aspects, the relationship between choreography and song, the changing representations of the dancing body, musical styles, sexual objectification and the star persona.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7133	MUSIC	141	THE HOLLYWOOD MUSICAL	Beyond its unapologetic praise of spectacularity and entertainment, what makes the Hollywood film musical a quintessential American genre? Since its origins, the Hollywood musical has been channelling various ideologies in its modes of performance and production; it has offered a space to address specific anxieties of the American society: modernity vs. nostalgia, representations of gender, ethnicity, class, and the low/high divide in arts. Emphasis will be given on its performative aspects, the relationship between choreography and song, the changing representations of the dancing body, musical styles, sexual objectification and the star persona.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7133	THEATRST	141	THE HOLLYWOOD MUSICAL	Beyond its unapologetic praise of spectacularity and entertainment, what makes the Hollywood film musical a quintessential American genre? Since its origins, the Hollywood musical has been channelling various ideologies in its modes of performance and production; it has offered a space to address specific anxieties of the American society: modernity vs. nostalgia, representations of gender, ethnicity, class, and the low/high divide in arts. Emphasis will be given on its performative aspects, the relationship between choreography and song, the changing representations of the dancing body, musical styles, sexual objectification and the star persona.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
7133	THEATRST	141	THE HOLLYWOOD MUSICAL	Beyond its unapologetic praise of spectacularity and entertainment, what makes the Hollywood film musical a quintessential American genre? Since its origins, the Hollywood musical has been channelling various ideologies in its modes of performance and production; it has offered a space to address specific anxieties of the American society: modernity vs. nostalgia, representations of gender, ethnicity, class, and the low/high divide in arts. Emphasis will be given on its performative aspects, the relationship between choreography and song, the changing representations of the dancing body, musical styles, sexual objectification and the star persona.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7153	MUSIC	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and/or theoretical analysis in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantial paper that contains significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
7153	MUSIC	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and/or theoretical analysis in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantial paper that contains significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
7255	NAVALSCI	331	NAVAL SHIP SYSTEMS	Quantitative study of basic naval ships' systems. Focus on detailed ship design, hydrodynamic forces, stability, propulsion, electrical theory and distribution, hydraulic theory, and damage control. Includes basic theory/design of various ship propulsion systems and case studies on leadership/ethical issues in the engineering arena.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7263	NAVALSCI	353	NAVIGATION	Theory, principles, and procedures of ship navigation, movements, and employment. Dead reckoning, piloting, celestial and electronic principles of navigation. Corequisite: Naval Science 353L.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
7263	NAVALSCI	353	NAVIGATION	Theory, principles, and procedures of ship navigation, movements, and employment. Dead reckoning, piloting, celestial and electronic principles of navigation. Corequisite: Naval Science 353L.	Course has lab
7264	NAVALSCI	 353L	NAVIGATION LABORATORY	Practical application of the theories and principles of navigation as presented in the lecture series.	Course has a lecture
7264	NAVALSCI	 353L	NAVIGATION LABORATORY	Practical application of the theories and principles of navigation as presented in the lecture series.	Course has a lecture
7269	NAVALSCI	 213S	EVOLUTION OF WARFARE	Continuity and change in the history of warfare, with attention to the interrelationship of social, political, technological, and military factors.	(CZ) Civilizations
7269	NAVALSCI	 213S	EVOLUTION OF WARFARE	Continuity and change in the history of warfare, with attention to the interrelationship of social, political, technological, and military factors.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
7269	NAVALSCI	 213S	EVOLUTION OF WARFARE	Continuity and change in the history of warfare, with attention to the interrelationship of social, political, technological, and military factors.	Seminar
7583	PHYSEDU	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
7583	PHYSEDU	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
7614	PHYSEDU	203	DIET AND NUTRITION	How diet affects well-being and reduces risk of certain diseases. Basic nutrition principles, sports performance enhancement, supplements, disordered eating, vegetarianism, herbs, diet and disease, and current trends in nutrition.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7625	PERSIAN	101	ELEMENTARY PERSIAN	Introduction to spoken and literary Persian: understanding, speaking, reading, and writing. Language laboratory drill.	(FL) Foreign Language
7627	PERSIAN	203	INTERMEDIATE PERSIAN	A continuation of Elementary Persian II; to help students enhance their proficiency in Persian language skills; emphasis on oral fluency, written expression, reading comprehension and developing cultural awareness. Prerequisite: Elementary Persian I or Instructor's approval based on the placement test score.	(CZ) Civilizations
7627	PERSIAN	203	INTERMEDIATE PERSIAN	A continuation of Elementary Persian II; to help students enhance their proficiency in Persian language skills; emphasis on oral fluency, written expression, reading comprehension and developing cultural awareness. Prerequisite: Elementary Persian I or Instructor's approval based on the placement test score.	(FL) Foreign Language
7692	PHIL	101	INTRODUCTION TO PHILOSOPHY	Examination of problems in philosophy; emphasis on metaphysics and theory of knowledge. Open only to first years and sophomores.	(CZ) Civilizations
7692	PHIL	101	INTRODUCTION TO PHILOSOPHY	Examination of problems in philosophy; emphasis on metaphysics and theory of knowledge. Open only to first years and sophomores.	(W) Writing
7694	PHIL	 103S	INTRO TO PHILOSOPHY	Philosophy 101 conducted as a seminar. Open only to first years and sophomores.	(CZ) Civilizations
7694	PHIL	 103S	INTRO TO PHILOSOPHY	Philosophy 101 conducted as a seminar. Open only to first years and sophomores.	(W) Writing
7694	PHIL	 103S	INTRO TO PHILOSOPHY	Philosophy 101 conducted as a seminar. Open only to first years and sophomores.	Seminar
7696	PHIL	150	LOGIC	The conditions of effective thinking and clear communication. Examination of the basic principles of deductive reasoning.	(CZ) Civilizations
7697	PHIL	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
7697	PHIL	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
7702	PHIL	201	HST MODERN PHILOSOPHY	Seventeenth and eighteenth century attempts to address philosophical problems concerning knowledge and the nature of reality in Descartes, Spinoza, Malebranche, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
7702	PHIL	201	HST MODERN PHILOSOPHY	Seventeenth and eighteenth century attempts to address philosophical problems concerning knowledge and the nature of reality in Descartes, Spinoza, Malebranche, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant.	(CZ) Civilizations
7710	LINGUIST	209	PHILOSOPHY OF LANGUAGE	A philosophical analysis of problems arising in the study of language and symbolism. Topics include: theories of language, the nature of signs and symbols, theories of meaning, types of discourse (scientific, mathematical, poetic), definition, ambiguity, metaphor.	(CZ) Civilizations
7710	PHIL	209	PHILOSOPHY OF LANGUAGE	A philosophical analysis of problems arising in the study of language and symbolism. Topics include: theories of language, the nature of signs and symbols, theories of meaning, types of discourse (scientific, mathematical, poetic), definition, ambiguity, metaphor.	(CZ) Civilizations
7712	PHIL	211	APPEARANCE AND REALITY	Problems in metaphysics: theories of existence, substance, universals, identity, space, time, causality, determinism and action, and the relation of mind and body.	(CZ) Civilizations
7712	PHIL	211	APPEARANCE AND REALITY	Problems in metaphysics: theories of existence, substance, universals, identity, space, time, causality, determinism and action, and the relation of mind and body.	(R) Research
7713	LINGUIST	208	PHILOSOPHY OF MIND	Such topics as mind and body, the nature of thought, perception, consciousness, personal identity, and other minds. The relevance of cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and computer science to the philosophy of mind.	(CZ) Civilizations
7713	LINGUIST	208	PHILOSOPHY OF MIND	Such topics as mind and body, the nature of thought, perception, consciousness, personal identity, and other minds. The relevance of cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and computer science to the philosophy of mind.	(R) Research
7713	PHIL	212	PHILOSOPHY OF MIND	Such topics as mind and body, the nature of thought, perception, consciousness, personal identity, and other minds. The relevance of cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and computer science to the philosophy of mind.	(CZ) Civilizations
7713	PHIL	212	PHILOSOPHY OF MIND	Such topics as mind and body, the nature of thought, perception, consciousness, personal identity, and other minds. The relevance of cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and computer science to the philosophy of mind.	(R) Research
7713	VMS	302	PHILOSOPHY OF MIND	Such topics as mind and body, the nature of thought, perception, consciousness, personal identity, and other minds. The relevance of cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and computer science to the philosophy of mind.	(CZ) Civilizations
7713	VMS	302	PHILOSOPHY OF MIND	Such topics as mind and body, the nature of thought, perception, consciousness, personal identity, and other minds. The relevance of cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and computer science to the philosophy of mind.	(R) Research
7718	PHIL	217	INTRO TO ETHICAL THEORY	Historically informed introduction to ethical theories in the Western tradition. Major historical figures (Aristotle, Kant, Mill) are read as well as some contemporary defenders of views inspired by these thinkers. This course is intended to provide a foundation for further study of ethics in philosophy.	(CZ) Civilizations
7718	PHIL	217	INTRO TO ETHICAL THEORY	Historically informed introduction to ethical theories in the Western tradition. Major historical figures (Aristotle, Kant, Mill) are read as well as some contemporary defenders of views inspired by these thinkers. This course is intended to provide a foundation for further study of ethics in philosophy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
7788	NEUROSCI	350	DRUG ACTIONS & REACTIONS	Mechanisms of drug action, concepts of drug toxicity, resistance, tolerance, and drug interactions. Examples of how drugs affect the autonomic and central nervous systems, the cardiovascular and endocrine systems, and how drugs treat infection and cancer. This course is designed for both science and nonscience majors, but preference will be given to junior biology majors concentrating in pharmacology. Recommended prerequisite: introductory biology (Biology 201L, 203L, or equivalent) and chemistry (Chemistry 101DL or 110DL).	(NS) Natural Sciences
7788	PHARM	350	DRUG ACTIONS & REACTIONS	Mechanisms of drug action, concepts of drug toxicity, resistance, tolerance, and drug interactions. Examples of how drugs affect the autonomic and central nervous systems, the cardiovascular and endocrine systems, and how drugs treat infection and cancer. This course is designed for both science and nonscience majors, but preference will be given to junior biology majors concentrating in pharmacology. Recommended prerequisite: introductory biology (Biology 201L, 203L, or equivalent) and chemistry (Chemistry 101DL or 110DL).	(NS) Natural Sciences
7790	PHARM	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a pharmacology-related area under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of the study results. Open to first-year students and sophomores with consent of supervising instructor.	(R) Research
7790	PHARM	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a pharmacology-related area under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of the study results. Open to first-year students and sophomores with consent of supervising instructor.	Independent Study
7865	PHYSICS	 164L	INTRO EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS I	First in a series of half-courses on experimental physics techniques for physics and biophysics majors. Experiments focus on core physics concepts of mechanics: force, motion, conservation laws, and oscillations. Students work in teams and use computers to collect, visualize, and analyze data. Key components: written documentation of experimental procedures and results in a scientific notebook; interpreting results and testing hypotheses; coding (Python), experimental design and refinement; multiple opportunities for open-ended laboratory activities that inspire team and individual creativity.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7865	PHYSICS	 164L	INTRO EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS I	First in a series of half-courses on experimental physics techniques for physics and biophysics majors. Experiments focus on core physics concepts of mechanics: force, motion, conservation laws, and oscillations. Students work in teams and use computers to collect, visualize, and analyze data. Key components: written documentation of experimental procedures and results in a scientific notebook; interpreting results and testing hypotheses; coding (Python), experimental design and refinement; multiple opportunities for open-ended laboratory activities that inspire team and individual creativity.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7865	PHYSICS	 164L	INTRO EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS I	First in a series of half-courses on experimental physics techniques for physics and biophysics majors. Experiments focus on core physics concepts of mechanics: force, motion, conservation laws, and oscillations. Students work in teams and use computers to collect, visualize, and analyze data. Key components: written documentation of experimental procedures and results in a scientific notebook; interpreting results and testing hypotheses; coding (Python), experimental design and refinement; multiple opportunities for open-ended laboratory activities that inspire team and individual creativity.	(W) Writing
7868	PHYSICS	 165L	INTRO EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS II	Second in series of half-courses on experimental physics techniques for physics and biophysics majors. Focus on core physics concepts of electricity, magnetism and optics: electrostatics, magnetostatics, magnetic induction, electromagnetic waves, geometrical and physical optics. Students work in teams and use computers to collect, visualize and analyze data. Key components: written documentation of experimental procedures and results in a scientific notebook; interpreting results and testing hypotheses; coding (Python), experimental design and refinement; multiple opportunities for open-ended laboratory activities that inspire team and individual creativity. Prerequisite: Physics 164L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7868	PHYSICS	 165L	INTRO EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS II	Second in series of half-courses on experimental physics techniques for physics and biophysics majors. Focus on core physics concepts of electricity, magnetism and optics: electrostatics, magnetostatics, magnetic induction, electromagnetic waves, geometrical and physical optics. Students work in teams and use computers to collect, visualize and analyze data. Key components: written documentation of experimental procedures and results in a scientific notebook; interpreting results and testing hypotheses; coding (Python), experimental design and refinement; multiple opportunities for open-ended laboratory activities that inspire team and individual creativity. Prerequisite: Physics 164L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7868	PHYSICS	 165L	INTRO EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS II	Second in series of half-courses on experimental physics techniques for physics and biophysics majors. Focus on core physics concepts of electricity, magnetism and optics: electrostatics, magnetostatics, magnetic induction, electromagnetic waves, geometrical and physical optics. Students work in teams and use computers to collect, visualize and analyze data. Key components: written documentation of experimental procedures and results in a scientific notebook; interpreting results and testing hypotheses; coding (Python), experimental design and refinement; multiple opportunities for open-ended laboratory activities that inspire team and individual creativity. Prerequisite: Physics 164L.	(W) Writing
7872	PHYSICS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
7872	PHYSICS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
7880	PHYSICS	 141L	GENERAL PHYSICS I	First part of a two-semester calculus-based course suitable for students in the life sciences. Core topics: kinematics, dynamics, systems of particles, conservation laws, statics, fluids, oscillations, waves. Physics 141 either has either a lecture component supplemented by lab and discussion sections, or one integrated team-based learning arrangement. Physics majors should enroll in Physics 161D/164L, 162D/165L in their first year. Not recommended for students with credit for Physics 151L, 152L, 161D. Recommended prerequisite: college calculus (Mathematics 21, Mathematics 105 and 106, or Mathematics 111). Mathematics 122 also recommended (may be taken concurrently).	(NS) Natural Sciences
7880	PHYSICS	 141L	GENERAL PHYSICS I	First part of a two-semester calculus-based course suitable for students in the life sciences. Core topics: kinematics, dynamics, systems of particles, conservation laws, statics, fluids, oscillations, waves. Physics 141 either has either a lecture component supplemented by lab and discussion sections, or one integrated team-based learning arrangement. Physics majors should enroll in Physics 161D/164L, 162D/165L in their first year. Not recommended for students with credit for Physics 151L, 152L, 161D. Recommended prerequisite: college calculus (Mathematics 21, Mathematics 105 and 106, or Mathematics 111). Mathematics 122 also recommended (may be taken concurrently).	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7880	PHYSICS	 141L	GENERAL PHYSICS I	First part of a two-semester calculus-based course suitable for students in the life sciences. Core topics: kinematics, dynamics, systems of particles, conservation laws, statics, fluids, oscillations, waves. Physics 141 either has either a lecture component supplemented by lab and discussion sections, or one integrated team-based learning arrangement. Physics majors should enroll in Physics 161D/164L, 162D/165L in their first year. Not recommended for students with credit for Physics 151L, 152L, 161D. Recommended prerequisite: college calculus (Mathematics 21, Mathematics 105 and 106, or Mathematics 111). Mathematics 122 also recommended (may be taken concurrently).	Course has lab and discussion
7882	PHYSICS	 142L	GENERAL PHYSICS II	The second semester of a calculus-based course for students in health or life sciences. Core topics: electric fields, circuits, magnetic fields, Faraday's law, Maxwell's equations, electromagnetic waves, properties of light, geometric optics, wave optics. Additional possible topics: optical instrumentation, quantum physics, selected applications. Students must enroll in a lecture (Physics 142L), a lab (Physics 142L9), and a discussion section (Physics 142L9D) to receive credit. Closed to students having credit for Physics 152L, 153L or 162D. Prerequisites: Physics 141L, 151L, or 161D.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7882	PHYSICS	 142L	GENERAL PHYSICS II	The second semester of a calculus-based course for students in health or life sciences. Core topics: electric fields, circuits, magnetic fields, Faraday's law, Maxwell's equations, electromagnetic waves, properties of light, geometric optics, wave optics. Additional possible topics: optical instrumentation, quantum physics, selected applications. Students must enroll in a lecture (Physics 142L), a lab (Physics 142L9), and a discussion section (Physics 142L9D) to receive credit. Closed to students having credit for Physics 152L, 153L or 162D. Prerequisites: Physics 141L, 151L, or 161D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7882	PHYSICS	 142L	GENERAL PHYSICS II	The second semester of a calculus-based course for students in health or life sciences. Core topics: electric fields, circuits, magnetic fields, Faraday's law, Maxwell's equations, electromagnetic waves, properties of light, geometric optics, wave optics. Additional possible topics: optical instrumentation, quantum physics, selected applications. Students must enroll in a lecture (Physics 142L), a lab (Physics 142L9), and a discussion section (Physics 142L9D) to receive credit. Closed to students having credit for Physics 152L, 153L or 162D. Prerequisites: Physics 141L, 151L, or 161D.	Course has lab and discussion
7884	PHYSICS	134	INTRO TO ASTRONOMY	How observation and scientific insights can be used to discover properties of the universe. Topics include an appreciation of the night sky, properties of light and matter, the solar system, how stars evolve and die, the Milky Way and other galaxies, the evolution of the universe from a hot Big Bang, exotic objects like black holes, and the possibility for extraterrestrial life. Prerequisite: high-school-level knowledge of algebra and geometry.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7884	PHYSICS	134	INTRO TO ASTRONOMY	How observation and scientific insights can be used to discover properties of the universe. Topics include an appreciation of the night sky, properties of light and matter, the solar system, how stars evolve and die, the Milky Way and other galaxies, the evolution of the universe from a hot Big Bang, exotic objects like black holes, and the possibility for extraterrestrial life. Prerequisite: high-school-level knowledge of algebra and geometry.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7891	PHYSICS	 264L	OPTICS & MODERN PHYSICS	Third course in sequence for physics and biophysics majors. Introductory treatments of special relativity and quantum mechanics. Topics include: wave mechanics and interference; relativistic kinematics, energy and momentum; the Schrodinger equation and its interpretation; quantum particles in one-dimension; spin; fermions and bosons; the hydrogen spectrum. Applications to crystallography, semiconductors, atomic physics and optics, particle physics, and cosmology. Prerequisites: Physics 162D and Mathematics 212 or their equivalents.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7891	PHYSICS	 264L	OPTICS & MODERN PHYSICS	Third course in sequence for physics and biophysics majors. Introductory treatments of special relativity and quantum mechanics. Topics include: wave mechanics and interference; relativistic kinematics, energy and momentum; the Schrodinger equation and its interpretation; quantum particles in one-dimension; spin; fermions and bosons; the hydrogen spectrum. Applications to crystallography, semiconductors, atomic physics and optics, particle physics, and cosmology. Prerequisites: Physics 162D and Mathematics 212 or their equivalents.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7896	PHYSICS	 362D	ELECTRICITY & MAGNETISM	Electrostatic fields and potentials, boundary value problems, magnetic induction, energy in electromagnetic fields, Maxwell's equations, introduction to electromagnetic radiation. Prerequisite: Mathematics 216 or equivalent.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7896	PHYSICS	 362D	ELECTRICITY & MAGNETISM	Electrostatic fields and potentials, boundary value problems, magnetic induction, energy in electromagnetic fields, Maxwell's equations, introduction to electromagnetic radiation. Prerequisite: Mathematics 216 or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7904	PHYSICS	 464D	QUANTUM MECHANICS I	Introduction to the non-relativistic quantum description of matter. Topics include experimental foundations, wave-particle duality, Schrodinger wave equation, interpretation of the wave function, the state vector, Hilbert space, Dirac notation, Heisenberg uncertainty principle, one-dimensional quantum problems, tunneling, the harmonic oscillator, three-dimensional quantum problems, angular momentum, the hydrogen atom, spin, angular momentum addition, identical particles, elementary perturbation theory, fine/hyperfine structure of hydrogen, dynamics of two-level systems, and applications to atoms, molecules, and other systems. Prerequisite: Mathematics 216 or 221 and Physics 264L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7904	PHYSICS	 464D	QUANTUM MECHANICS I	Introduction to the non-relativistic quantum description of matter. Topics include experimental foundations, wave-particle duality, Schrodinger wave equation, interpretation of the wave function, the state vector, Hilbert space, Dirac notation, Heisenberg uncertainty principle, one-dimensional quantum problems, tunneling, the harmonic oscillator, three-dimensional quantum problems, angular momentum, the hydrogen atom, spin, angular momentum addition, identical particles, elementary perturbation theory, fine/hyperfine structure of hydrogen, dynamics of two-level systems, and applications to atoms, molecules, and other systems. Prerequisite: Mathematics 216 or 221 and Physics 264L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7909	PHYSICS	 417S	ADV PHYSICS LAB & SEM	Experiments involving the fields of electricity, magnetism, heat, optics, and modern physics. Written and oral presentations of results. Instructor consent required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
7909	PHYSICS	 417S	ADV PHYSICS LAB & SEM	Experiments involving the fields of electricity, magnetism, heat, optics, and modern physics. Written and oral presentations of results. Instructor consent required.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
7909	PHYSICS	 417S	ADV PHYSICS LAB & SEM	Experiments involving the fields of electricity, magnetism, heat, optics, and modern physics. Written and oral presentations of results. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
7909	PHYSICS	 417S	ADV PHYSICS LAB & SEM	Experiments involving the fields of electricity, magnetism, heat, optics, and modern physics. Written and oral presentations of results. Instructor consent required.	(W) Writing
7909	PHYSICS	 417S	ADV PHYSICS LAB & SEM	Experiments involving the fields of electricity, magnetism, heat, optics, and modern physics. Written and oral presentations of results. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
7913	PHYSICS	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY: ADV TOP	Reading in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member. Intended for students interested in studying topics not offered in regularly available courses. Format and grading are determined by the supervising faculty member and then approved by the DUS. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
7914	PHYSICS	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Original research conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. At least one written substantive report or a poster presentation is required. Consent of instructor and DUS required.	(R) Research
7914	PHYSICS	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Original research conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. At least one written substantive report or a poster presentation is required. Consent of instructor and DUS required.	Independent Study
8048	PUBPOL	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics may vary each semester offered.	Seminar
8048	PUBPOL	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics may vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
8051	PUBPOL	 155D	INTRO TO POLICY ANALYSIS	Gateway course introduces future leaders to the study of Public Policy through an overview of the political and social context in which public policy is made, the common obstacles to good decision-making, and several methodologies used in the field of Public Policy. Students learn to apply these concepts to real-world issues through a series of case-study-driven memos and assignments that introduce enduring problems, landmark policies, and contemporary issues in a topical concentration of their choice. Appropriate for students at any level (freshmen to seniors) and designed for both prospective public policy majors and non-majors with a general interest in public policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
8054	PUBPOL	384	PUBLIC SPEAKING	Theoretical and practical understanding of the elements of effective advocacy, especially as applied to policy issues. Focus on oral communication (both formal public speaking and interactive exchange), written exposition, and presentation skills. Emphasis on the human dimensions of the communication process-voice and body behavior, audience evaluation, focus, control and self-awareness. Identifies techniques for minimizing communication distraction, developing confidence in presentation situations, and analyzing informational requirements. Does not apply toward public policy studies major. This course is open to students in their junior or senior year.	(W) Writing
8054	WRITING	384	PUBLIC SPEAKING	Theoretical and practical understanding of the elements of effective advocacy, especially as applied to policy issues. Focus on oral communication (both formal public speaking and interactive exchange), written exposition, and presentation skills. Emphasis on the human dimensions of the communication process-voice and body behavior, audience evaluation, focus, control and self-awareness. Identifies techniques for minimizing communication distraction, developing confidence in presentation situations, and analyzing informational requirements. Does not apply toward public policy studies major. This course is open to students in their junior or senior year.	(W) Writing
8062	CINE	 331S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
8062	CINE	 331S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(R) Research
8062	CINE	 331S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8062	CINE	 331S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	Seminar
8062	CULANTH	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
8062	CULANTH	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(R) Research
8062	CULANTH	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8062	CULANTH	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	Seminar
8062	DOCST	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
8062	DOCST	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(R) Research
8062	DOCST	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8062	DOCST	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	Seminar
8062	HISTORY	 125S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
8062	HISTORY	 125S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(R) Research
8062	HISTORY	 125S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8062	HISTORY	 125S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	Seminar
8062	POLSCI	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
8062	POLSCI	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(R) Research
8062	POLSCI	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8062	POLSCI	 105S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	Seminar
8062	PUBPOL	 170S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
8062	PUBPOL	 170S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(R) Research
8062	PUBPOL	 170S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8062	PUBPOL	 170S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	Seminar
8062	VMS	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
8062	VMS	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(R) Research
8062	VMS	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8062	VMS	 106S	DOC EXPER: A VIDEO APPR	A documentary approach to the study of local communities through video production projects assigned by the course instructor. Working closely with these groups, students explore issues or topics of concern to the community. Students complete an edited video as their final project. Not open to students who have taken this course as Film/Video/Digital 105S.	Seminar
8068	POLSCI	310	POL ANALY PUB POL MAKING	Analysis of the political and organizational processes which influence the formulation and implementation of public policy. Alternative models. Prerequisite: Public Policy 155D.	(SS) Social Sciences
8068	POLSCI	310	POL ANALY PUB POL MAKING	Analysis of the political and organizational processes which influence the formulation and implementation of public policy. Alternative models. Prerequisite: Public Policy 155D.	(W) Writing
8068	PUBPOL	301	POL ANALY PUB POL MAKING	Analysis of the political and organizational processes which influence the formulation and implementation of public policy. Alternative models. Prerequisite: Public Policy 155D.	(SS) Social Sciences
8068	PUBPOL	301	POL ANALY PUB POL MAKING	Analysis of the political and organizational processes which influence the formulation and implementation of public policy. Alternative models. Prerequisite: Public Policy 155D.	(W) Writing
8071	PUBPOL	 302D	POL CHOICE/VAL CONFLICT	Theoretical and practical problems in decision making in relation to conflicts of value and of interest. The manifestation of norms deriving from professional ethics, ideology, law, and other sources in such policy issues as welfare, environmental management, and national defense. Prerequisites: Public Policy 155D.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
8071	PUBPOL	 302D	POL CHOICE/VAL CONFLICT	Theoretical and practical problems in decision making in relation to conflicts of value and of interest. The manifestation of norms deriving from professional ethics, ideology, law, and other sources in such policy issues as welfare, environmental management, and national defense. Prerequisites: Public Policy 155D.	(SS) Social Sciences
8081	PUBPOL	 259S	WOMEN AS LEADERS	Explore the long history of women's activism in the United States, and how that history has shaped current debates about women leaders. Explore the variety of ways that women exercise leadership not just in party politics and corporations, but in neighborhoods, schools, and unions among other places. Learn about theories of leadership and connect theory to practice through the process of articulating your own theory of change for your leadership journey. All are welcomed.	(SS) Social Sciences
8081	PUBPOL	 259S	WOMEN AS LEADERS	Explore the long history of women's activism in the United States, and how that history has shaped current debates about women leaders. Explore the variety of ways that women exercise leadership not just in party politics and corporations, but in neighborhoods, schools, and unions among other places. Learn about theories of leadership and connect theory to practice through the process of articulating your own theory of change for your leadership journey. All are welcomed.	(W) Writing
8081	PUBPOL	 259S	WOMEN AS LEADERS	Explore the long history of women's activism in the United States, and how that history has shaped current debates about women leaders. Explore the variety of ways that women exercise leadership not just in party politics and corporations, but in neighborhoods, schools, and unions among other places. Learn about theories of leadership and connect theory to practice through the process of articulating your own theory of change for your leadership journey. All are welcomed.	Seminar
8086	PUBPOL	 260S	LEADERSHIP/POLICY/CHANGE	Seminar will examine the implications of declining trust in our institutions for leadership in the 21st Century. Considers this country's rich tradition of skepticism about its public institutions, as well as the vital role that societal trust has played in allowing leaders to craft and carry out meaningful public policy, dispense justice, and effect social change. Studies contemporary case studies and the role of increasing political polarization, seeking to understand why some institutions have maintained public confidence while others have not, and whether trust in the latter can be restored.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
8086	PUBPOL	 260S	LEADERSHIP/POLICY/CHANGE	Seminar will examine the implications of declining trust in our institutions for leadership in the 21st Century. Considers this country's rich tradition of skepticism about its public institutions, as well as the vital role that societal trust has played in allowing leaders to craft and carry out meaningful public policy, dispense justice, and effect social change. Studies contemporary case studies and the role of increasing political polarization, seeking to understand why some institutions have maintained public confidence while others have not, and whether trust in the latter can be restored.	(SS) Social Sciences
8086	PUBPOL	 260S	LEADERSHIP/POLICY/CHANGE	Seminar will examine the implications of declining trust in our institutions for leadership in the 21st Century. Considers this country's rich tradition of skepticism about its public institutions, as well as the vital role that societal trust has played in allowing leaders to craft and carry out meaningful public policy, dispense justice, and effect social change. Studies contemporary case studies and the role of increasing political polarization, seeking to understand why some institutions have maintained public confidence while others have not, and whether trust in the latter can be restored.	Seminar
8121	HISTORY	375	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8121	HISTORY	375	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(CZ) Civilizations
8121	HISTORY	375	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
8121	HISTORY	375	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
8121	POLSCI	215	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8121	POLSCI	215	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(CZ) Civilizations
8121	POLSCI	215	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
8121	POLSCI	215	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
8121	PUBPOL	205	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8121	PUBPOL	205	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(CZ) Civilizations
8121	PUBPOL	205	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
8121	PUBPOL	205	US & WORLD, 1898 TO PRESENT	Course explores the evolution of US foreign relations, from the Spanish-American War in 1898 through the challenges facing the Biden Administration. Will consider US foreign relations in a broad sense. US' political, economic, and cultural relations with other states, organizations, and individuals will all be considered, as will the role that domestic politics play in the making and execution of US foreign policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
8146	PUBPOL	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Supervised reading in a field of special interest under the sponsorship of a faculty member. Requires a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
8147	PUBPOL	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
8147	PUBPOL	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
8150	PUBPOL	290	SELECTED TOPICS		Topics Course
8151	PUBPOL	 290S	SELECTED TOPICS	Seminar version of Public Policy Studies 290.	Seminar
8151	PUBPOL	 290S	SELECTED TOPICS	Seminar version of Public Policy Studies 290.	Topics Course
8156	PUBPOL	 496S	HONORS SEMINAR	Continuation of Public Policy Studies 495S.  Consent of the honors seminar instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.  Prerequisite: Public Policy Studies 495S.	(R) Research
8156	PUBPOL	 496S	HONORS SEMINAR	Continuation of Public Policy Studies 495S.  Consent of the honors seminar instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.  Prerequisite: Public Policy Studies 495S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8156	PUBPOL	 496S	HONORS SEMINAR	Continuation of Public Policy Studies 495S.  Consent of the honors seminar instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.  Prerequisite: Public Policy Studies 495S.	(W) Writing
8156	PUBPOL	 496S	HONORS SEMINAR	Continuation of Public Policy Studies 495S.  Consent of the honors seminar instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.  Prerequisite: Public Policy Studies 495S.	Seminar
8333	POLSCI	 116D	INTRO TO AMERICAN POLITICS	Same as Political Science 116 except instruction is provided in two lectures and one small discussion meeting each week.	(SS) Social Sciences
8337	POLSCI	 160D	INTRO TO IR: SEC, PEACE & CONF	Same as Political Science 160 except instruction is provided in two lectures and one small discussion meeting each week.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8337	POLSCI	 160D	INTRO TO IR: SEC, PEACE & CONF	Same as Political Science 160 except instruction is provided in two lectures and one small discussion meeting each week.	(SS) Social Sciences
8337	PUBPOL	 166D	INTRO TO IR: SEC, PEACE & CONF	Same as Political Science 160 except instruction is provided in two lectures and one small discussion meeting each week.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8337	PUBPOL	 166D	INTRO TO IR: SEC, PEACE & CONF	Same as Political Science 160 except instruction is provided in two lectures and one small discussion meeting each week.	(SS) Social Sciences
8386	POLSCI	201	PUBLIC OPINION	Examines nature and role of public opinion in American democracy, providing broad-based introduction to dynamics of citizens' social and political attitudes in contemporary United States. Goal of course is to help students arrive at a more comprehensive understanding of forces that shape beliefs, attitudes, and opinions of American public, the means by which those views are publicly expressed, and the influence of those opinions on policy outcomes.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
8386	POLSCI	201	PUBLIC OPINION	Examines nature and role of public opinion in American democracy, providing broad-based introduction to dynamics of citizens' social and political attitudes in contemporary United States. Goal of course is to help students arrive at a more comprehensive understanding of forces that shape beliefs, attitudes, and opinions of American public, the means by which those views are publicly expressed, and the influence of those opinions on policy outcomes.	(SS) Social Sciences
8402	POLSCI	373	LAW AND POLITICS	Examination of the nature and functions of law and legal institutions through critical interpretation of legal texts and practices. Relationships among bench, bar, legislators, and administrators in the development of public as well as private law. Attention to judicial reasoning used in the resolution of cases and controversies involving the common law, statutes including selected aspects of civil procedure, and the American Constitution.	(SS) Social Sciences
8415	POLSCI	 242D	CAMPAIGNS AND ELECTIONS	The campaign process, voting and elections in the United States, with emphasis on the varying role of media in campaigns. The nomination and election process; focus on the critical evaluation of various empirical models of voting behavior in presidential and congressional elections and the impact of election outcomes on the content and direction of public policy in various historical eras in American politics.	(SS) Social Sciences
8419	POLSCI	332	GAMES AND POLITICS	Applications of modern decision theory to the study of political science. Topics include: individual decision theory and rational choice; game theory and human interaction; and social choice theory and the mechanisms by which individual choices are aggregated into collective choices. Political institutions such as voting rules, legislatures, parties, and hierarchy, alternative voting methods and political institutions, and how societies solve some practical distributive problems. Although course has no mathematical prerequisites, students should be willing to consider abstract models and follow logically rigorous arguments. Not open to students who have taken Political Science 671S.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
8419	POLSCI	332	GAMES AND POLITICS	Applications of modern decision theory to the study of political science. Topics include: individual decision theory and rational choice; game theory and human interaction; and social choice theory and the mechanisms by which individual choices are aggregated into collective choices. Political institutions such as voting rules, legislatures, parties, and hierarchy, alternative voting methods and political institutions, and how societies solve some practical distributive problems. Although course has no mathematical prerequisites, students should be willing to consider abstract models and follow logically rigorous arguments. Not open to students who have taken Political Science 671S.	(SS) Social Sciences
8459	ECON	 389S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
8459	ECON	 389S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
8459	ECON	 389S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
8459	PHIL	 465S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
8459	PHIL	 465S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
8459	PHIL	 465S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
8459	POLSCI	 449S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
8459	POLSCI	 449S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
8459	POLSCI	 449S	PPE CAPSTONE	Capstone course open only to students in the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics program.  Integrates and synthesizes the analytical framework and factual studies provided in other PPE courses.  Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
8461	ICS	324	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8461	ICS	324	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(R) Research
8461	ICS	324	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
8461	ICS	324	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(W) Writing
8461	POLSCI	321	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8461	POLSCI	321	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(R) Research
8461	POLSCI	321	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
8461	POLSCI	321	INTL LAW/INTL INSTITU	The relationship between international politics and international law; how international institutions operate and affect social practices, and how legalization of institutions changes the manner of interpretation of legal texts. The nature of legal and political discourse over issues subject to international law such as human rights; issues of compliance with rules, the connections between international relations and domestic law, and the overall effects of international law and institutions on world politics; cross-national differences in attitudes toward issues such as environmental regulation, trade liberalization, and military intervention on behalf of human rights. Prerequisite: Political Science 160 or equivalent.	(W) Writing
8517	POLSCI	 497S-2	SEN SEM IN POL INSTITUTIONS	Special topics in political institutions; open also, if places are available, to qualified juniors who have earned a 3.0 average and obtain the consent of the instructor.	(SS) Social Sciences
8517	POLSCI	 497S-2	SEN SEM IN POL INSTITUTIONS	Special topics in political institutions; open also, if places are available, to qualified juniors who have earned a 3.0 average and obtain the consent of the instructor.	Seminar
8764	PSY	101	INTRODUCTORY PSYCHOLOGY	Broad survey of the field of modern psychology. The class includes a broad study of behavior with emphasis on biological, evolutionary, cognitive, and developmental perspectives while placing this work in its historical, social and philosophical context. Conceptual issues unifying the subfields of psychology are highlighted along with consideration of techniques and methods by which knowledge about the brain, mind, thought and behavior is acquired and refined. There is also discussion about the impacts on life and society of contemporary scientific approaches and technologies. Students are required to participate in psychological research.	(NS) Natural Sciences
8764	PSY	101	INTRODUCTORY PSYCHOLOGY	Broad survey of the field of modern psychology. The class includes a broad study of behavior with emphasis on biological, evolutionary, cognitive, and developmental perspectives while placing this work in its historical, social and philosophical context. Conceptual issues unifying the subfields of psychology are highlighted along with consideration of techniques and methods by which knowledge about the brain, mind, thought and behavior is acquired and refined. There is also discussion about the impacts on life and society of contemporary scientific approaches and technologies. Students are required to participate in psychological research.	(SS) Social Sciences
8764	PSY	101	INTRODUCTORY PSYCHOLOGY	Broad survey of the field of modern psychology. The class includes a broad study of behavior with emphasis on biological, evolutionary, cognitive, and developmental perspectives while placing this work in its historical, social and philosophical context. Conceptual issues unifying the subfields of psychology are highlighted along with consideration of techniques and methods by which knowledge about the brain, mind, thought and behavior is acquired and refined. There is also discussion about the impacts on life and society of contemporary scientific approaches and technologies. Students are required to participate in psychological research.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
8766	PSY	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
8766	PSY	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
8768	PSY	 102D	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Overview of cognitive processes including pattern recognition, concept formation, attention, memory, imagery, mental representation, language, problem solving, and modes of thinking. The basic approach is both empirical (using data collection and analysis) and theoretical (building models using inductive/deductive reasoning). Application of basic laboratory results to cognition in everyday life. Students are required to participate in psychological research. Prerequisite: Psychology 101 strongly recommended.	(NS) Natural Sciences
8768	PSY	 102D	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Overview of cognitive processes including pattern recognition, concept formation, attention, memory, imagery, mental representation, language, problem solving, and modes of thinking. The basic approach is both empirical (using data collection and analysis) and theoretical (building models using inductive/deductive reasoning). Application of basic laboratory results to cognition in everyday life. Students are required to participate in psychological research. Prerequisite: Psychology 101 strongly recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
8800	PSY	425	PSYCH OF CONSUMERS	The psychology of consumers and ways of influencing consumer behavior. How knowledge of consumer psychology and behavior is used to develop marketing techniques. How to use consumer psychology in making business decisions; the ethical issues associated with consumer influence. Prerequisite: Prior course in Psychology.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
8800	PSY	425	PSYCH OF CONSUMERS	The psychology of consumers and ways of influencing consumer behavior. How knowledge of consumer psychology and behavior is used to develop marketing techniques. How to use consumer psychology in making business decisions; the ethical issues associated with consumer influence. Prerequisite: Prior course in Psychology.	(SS) Social Sciences
8801	PSY	104	SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Effects of social interaction and social processes on a wide range of individual attitudes and behaviors (for example, conformity, leadership, prejudice, aggression, altruism). Emphasis on the logic, reasoning, research designs, and methods by which knowledge is generated. Equal attention to experimental and non-experimental research. Students are required to participate in psychological research. Prerequisite: Psychology 101 strongly recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
8805	PSY	 105D	CLINICAL PSYCH & MENTAL HEALTH	This course provides a broad overview of clinical psychology and mental health. Areas of focus include: Reviewing different theoretical perspectives for conceptualizing adaptive and maladaptive behaviors, emotions, cognitions, and experiences; Approaches to the diagnosis and assessment of mental health and psychopathology; Major classes of psychopathology including how they are defined and treated; Current research in the field of clinical psychology and mental health. There is a research participation requirement for this course.	(SS) Social Sciences
8819	PSY	325	SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT	Examines children's social development from birth to early adulthood. Attention is given to the influences of family, peers, schools, and media on social development, including parent-child attachment, achievement motivation, self-concept, sex-role development, social competence, aggression, and moral development. Throughout the course, attention is also given to major theoretical perspectives, research methodology, the applied and policy implications of research, and to children and families from diverse cultural backgrounds. Recommended prerequisite: Psychology 103 or 104 or 221, or instructor permission.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
8819	PSY	325	SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT	Examines children's social development from birth to early adulthood. Attention is given to the influences of family, peers, schools, and media on social development, including parent-child attachment, achievement motivation, self-concept, sex-role development, social competence, aggression, and moral development. Throughout the course, attention is also given to major theoretical perspectives, research methodology, the applied and policy implications of research, and to children and families from diverse cultural backgrounds. Recommended prerequisite: Psychology 103 or 104 or 221, or instructor permission.	(R) Research
8819	PSY	325	SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT	Examines children's social development from birth to early adulthood. Attention is given to the influences of family, peers, schools, and media on social development, including parent-child attachment, achievement motivation, self-concept, sex-role development, social competence, aggression, and moral development. Throughout the course, attention is also given to major theoretical perspectives, research methodology, the applied and policy implications of research, and to children and families from diverse cultural backgrounds. Recommended prerequisite: Psychology 103 or 104 or 221, or instructor permission.	(SS) Social Sciences
8827	NEUROSCI	211	BRAIN AND BEHAVIOR	This course will focus on how brain mechanisms enable behavior. We will examine the neural basis of homeostatic control, voluntary actions, motivation, emotion, and decision making. We will use systems analysis to elucidate how volition, intentionality, and purpose can be emergent properties of neuronal interactions. We will also explore how different neurological and psychiatric disorders can result from specific defects in hierarchical neural networks. Prerequisite (one of the following): Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101, Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102, Psychology 275/Neuroscience 201, or Psychology 193FS/Neurobiology 193FS/Neuroscience 193FS.	(NS) Natural Sciences
8827	PSY	276	BRAIN AND BEHAVIOR	This course will focus on how brain mechanisms enable behavior. We will examine the neural basis of homeostatic control, voluntary actions, motivation, emotion, and decision making. We will use systems analysis to elucidate how volition, intentionality, and purpose can be emergent properties of neuronal interactions. We will also explore how different neurological and psychiatric disorders can result from specific defects in hierarchical neural networks. Prerequisite (one of the following): Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101, Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102, Psychology 275/Neuroscience 201, or Psychology 193FS/Neurobiology 193FS/Neuroscience 193FS.	(NS) Natural Sciences
8847	PSY	 436S	CHILD CLINICAL INTERVENTIONS	Study of techniques used by clinical psychologists to treat and prevent psychological disorders of childhood. Focus on a) understanding major types of clinical interventions, b) how clinical psychologists develop, implement, and evaluate interventions, c) ethical issues in treating children and families, d) integration of research and practice in the treatment and prevention of childhood psychological disorders. Prerequisites: Psychology 105 or 207, and a research methods course or statistics course.	(SS) Social Sciences
8847	PSY	 436S	CHILD CLINICAL INTERVENTIONS	Study of techniques used by clinical psychologists to treat and prevent psychological disorders of childhood. Focus on a) understanding major types of clinical interventions, b) how clinical psychologists develop, implement, and evaluate interventions, c) ethical issues in treating children and families, d) integration of research and practice in the treatment and prevention of childhood psychological disorders. Prerequisites: Psychology 105 or 207, and a research methods course or statistics course.	(W) Writing
8847	PSY	 436S	CHILD CLINICAL INTERVENTIONS	Study of techniques used by clinical psychologists to treat and prevent psychological disorders of childhood. Focus on a) understanding major types of clinical interventions, b) how clinical psychologists develop, implement, and evaluate interventions, c) ethical issues in treating children and families, d) integration of research and practice in the treatment and prevention of childhood psychological disorders. Prerequisites: Psychology 105 or 207, and a research methods course or statistics course.	Seminar
8855	PSY	 474S	BIO PSYCH OF HUMAN DEVEL	Multidisciplinary perspectives bearing on key processes in human development from infancy through old age; the way that biological and psychological processes act together in normal and pathological behavior and development. Clinical case material and videotapes. Open to juniors and seniors only, preferably Psychology majors and students in the Program in Human Development.	(R) Research
8855	PSY	 474S	BIO PSYCH OF HUMAN DEVEL	Multidisciplinary perspectives bearing on key processes in human development from infancy through old age; the way that biological and psychological processes act together in normal and pathological behavior and development. Clinical case material and videotapes. Open to juniors and seniors only, preferably Psychology majors and students in the Program in Human Development.	(SS) Social Sciences
8855	PSY	 474S	BIO PSYCH OF HUMAN DEVEL	Multidisciplinary perspectives bearing on key processes in human development from infancy through old age; the way that biological and psychological processes act together in normal and pathological behavior and development. Clinical case material and videotapes. Open to juniors and seniors only, preferably Psychology majors and students in the Program in Human Development.	(W) Writing
8855	PSY	 474S	BIO PSYCH OF HUMAN DEVEL	Multidisciplinary perspectives bearing on key processes in human development from infancy through old age; the way that biological and psychological processes act together in normal and pathological behavior and development. Clinical case material and videotapes. Open to juniors and seniors only, preferably Psychology majors and students in the Program in Human Development.	Seminar
8858	PSY	 321S	PERSONALITY/INDIV DIFF	Study of assessment of personality and cognitive-ability traits, and their influence on the life course. Topics include: assessment of personality traits; behavioral genetics; personality continuity and change across the life course; influence of personality traits and intelligence on health and status attainment. Prerequisite: introductory course work in psychological methods and statistics in the behavioral sciences.	(SS) Social Sciences
8858	PSY	 321S	PERSONALITY/INDIV DIFF	Study of assessment of personality and cognitive-ability traits, and their influence on the life course. Topics include: assessment of personality traits; behavioral genetics; personality continuity and change across the life course; influence of personality traits and intelligence on health and status attainment. Prerequisite: introductory course work in psychological methods and statistics in the behavioral sciences.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
8858	PSY	 321S	PERSONALITY/INDIV DIFF	Study of assessment of personality and cognitive-ability traits, and their influence on the life course. Topics include: assessment of personality traits; behavioral genetics; personality continuity and change across the life course; influence of personality traits and intelligence on health and status attainment. Prerequisite: introductory course work in psychological methods and statistics in the behavioral sciences.	Seminar
8886	PSY	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Topics vary by semester and section from the different areas of Psychology: Biological, Cognitive, Developmental or Personality/Social. Consent of instructor and/or specific prerequisites may be required for specific offerings.	Seminar
8886	PSY	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Topics vary by semester and section from the different areas of Psychology: Biological, Cognitive, Developmental or Personality/Social. Consent of instructor and/or specific prerequisites may be required for specific offerings.	Topics Course
8941	PSY	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course but does not fulfill major requirement for an advanced seminar or methods course. Junior year fall. Prerequisite: Two courses in Psychology. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
8941	PSY	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course but does not fulfill major requirement for an advanced seminar or methods course. Junior year fall. Prerequisite: Two courses in Psychology. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
8943	PSY	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Psychology 393. Senior year fall. Prerequisite: Two psychology courses. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
8943	PSY	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Psychology 393. Senior year fall. Prerequisite: Two psychology courses. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
9129	PORTUGUE	101	ELEMENTARY PORTUGUESE I	Course is geared towards communicative skills and is designed for students to complete it with a basic level of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading, and writing. The course focuses on conversation, grammar acquisition, and cultural issues raised in lessons, films, videos, articles, readings, and music. Meets four times a week.	(FL) Foreign Language
9141	PORTUGUE	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
9141	PORTUGUE	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
9143	PORTUGUE	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Portuguese 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
9143	PORTUGUE	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Portuguese 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
9150	PATHOL	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive written report or oral presentation containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
9150	PATHOL	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive written report or oral presentation containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
9189	AMES	111	SELF, SOCIETY, ART IN HINDUISM	An exploration of the beliefs, ethics, everyday and ceremonial practices, philosophies, mythologies, and movements that are part of the aggregately-named religion of Hinduism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9189	AMES	111	SELF, SOCIETY, ART IN HINDUISM	An exploration of the beliefs, ethics, everyday and ceremonial practices, philosophies, mythologies, and movements that are part of the aggregately-named religion of Hinduism.	(CZ) Civilizations
9189	AMES	111	SELF, SOCIETY, ART IN HINDUISM	An exploration of the beliefs, ethics, everyday and ceremonial practices, philosophies, mythologies, and movements that are part of the aggregately-named religion of Hinduism.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9189	RELIGION	110	SELF, SOCIETY, ART IN HINDUISM	An exploration of the beliefs, ethics, everyday and ceremonial practices, philosophies, mythologies, and movements that are part of the aggregately-named religion of Hinduism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9189	RELIGION	110	SELF, SOCIETY, ART IN HINDUISM	An exploration of the beliefs, ethics, everyday and ceremonial practices, philosophies, mythologies, and movements that are part of the aggregately-named religion of Hinduism.	(CZ) Civilizations
9189	RELIGION	110	SELF, SOCIETY, ART IN HINDUISM	An exploration of the beliefs, ethics, everyday and ceremonial practices, philosophies, mythologies, and movements that are part of the aggregately-named religion of Hinduism.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9190	AMES	114	BUDDHISM	Introduction to Buddhist texts, beliefs, rituals, and ethics in the past and present.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9190	AMES	114	BUDDHISM	Introduction to Buddhist texts, beliefs, rituals, and ethics in the past and present.	(CZ) Civilizations
9190	AMES	114	BUDDHISM	Introduction to Buddhist texts, beliefs, rituals, and ethics in the past and present.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9190	RELIGION	120	BUDDHISM	Introduction to Buddhist texts, beliefs, rituals, and ethics in the past and present.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9190	RELIGION	120	BUDDHISM	Introduction to Buddhist texts, beliefs, rituals, and ethics in the past and present.	(CZ) Civilizations
9190	RELIGION	120	BUDDHISM	Introduction to Buddhist texts, beliefs, rituals, and ethics in the past and present.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9250	RELIGION	367	BODIES, SEX, & CHRISTIANITIES	Christian scripture, literature, and art abounds with female figures. From the Virgin Mary to female saints, the Christian tradition has memorialized extraordinary women as models for lay women. How did Christianity challenge and preserve norms for female behavior? How did ascetic women and female martyrs transgress gender expectations? This course navigates the pitfalls and opportunities that the study of women offers for understanding the development of Christian belief and institutions. We will trace how gender was theorized and normative behavior prescribed and enforced within the periods of Late Antiquity, the Middle Ages, Reformation and modern day.	(CZ) Civilizations
9250	RELIGION	367	BODIES, SEX, & CHRISTIANITIES	Christian scripture, literature, and art abounds with female figures. From the Virgin Mary to female saints, the Christian tradition has memorialized extraordinary women as models for lay women. How did Christianity challenge and preserve norms for female behavior? How did ascetic women and female martyrs transgress gender expectations? This course navigates the pitfalls and opportunities that the study of women offers for understanding the development of Christian belief and institutions. We will trace how gender was theorized and normative behavior prescribed and enforced within the periods of Late Antiquity, the Middle Ages, Reformation and modern day.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9250	RELIGION	367	BODIES, SEX, & CHRISTIANITIES	Christian scripture, literature, and art abounds with female figures. From the Virgin Mary to female saints, the Christian tradition has memorialized extraordinary women as models for lay women. How did Christianity challenge and preserve norms for female behavior? How did ascetic women and female martyrs transgress gender expectations? This course navigates the pitfalls and opportunities that the study of women offers for understanding the development of Christian belief and institutions. We will trace how gender was theorized and normative behavior prescribed and enforced within the periods of Late Antiquity, the Middle Ages, Reformation and modern day.	(W) Writing
9271	AMES	122	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9271	AMES	122	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
9271	AMES	122	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9271	CULANTH	256	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9271	CULANTH	256	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
9271	CULANTH	256	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9271	HISTORY	210	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9271	HISTORY	210	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
9271	HISTORY	210	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9271	ICS	217	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9271	ICS	217	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
9271	ICS	217	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9271	MEDREN	268	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9271	MEDREN	268	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
9271	MEDREN	268	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9271	RELIGION	217	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9271	RELIGION	217	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
9271	RELIGION	217	ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION I	A global history of Islamic thought, practice, spirituality, politics, and culture. This course analyzes the emergence of Islam and the spread of Muslim culture and learning across Africa, Asia, and Europe. It introduces how Muslims fostered a globalized economy and international community of scientists, scholars, agriculturalists, musicians, artisans, and philosophers of diverse backgrounds  along with other key themes that students may pursue in greater detail in future coursework. Gateway course for an interdisciplinary certificate in Islamic studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9310	CINE	273	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
9310	CINE	273	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9310	CINE	273	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CZ) Civilizations
9310	CINE	273	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9310	DOCST	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
9310	DOCST	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9310	DOCST	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CZ) Civilizations
9310	DOCST	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9310	RELIGION	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
9310	RELIGION	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9310	RELIGION	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CZ) Civilizations
9310	RELIGION	268	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9310	VMS	269	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
9310	VMS	269	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9310	VMS	269	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(CZ) Civilizations
9310	VMS	269	RELIGION AND FILM	A study of the relationship between motion pictures and religion. Focus on the comparative portrayal of organized religions; expressions of religious life; and religious topics, such as God, evil and morality, in both Western and non-Western films in which contemporary artists and intellectuals explore the challenges of modernity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9312	RELIGION	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of Religion 290.	Seminar
9312	RELIGION	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of Religion 290.	Topics Course
9313	RELIGION	 368S	THEOLOGY/FICTION OF C.S. LEWIS	A study of texts of cultural criticism, fantasy fiction, and theological and moral argument by C. S. Lewis; their dependence on the cultural situation in which they were deployed; an engagement with the interaction of magic, science, and religion; and the reasons for their continuing force and wide appeal.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
9313	RELIGION	 368S	THEOLOGY/FICTION OF C.S. LEWIS	A study of texts of cultural criticism, fantasy fiction, and theological and moral argument by C. S. Lewis; their dependence on the cultural situation in which they were deployed; an engagement with the interaction of magic, science, and religion; and the reasons for their continuing force and wide appeal.	(CZ) Civilizations
9313	RELIGION	 368S	THEOLOGY/FICTION OF C.S. LEWIS	A study of texts of cultural criticism, fantasy fiction, and theological and moral argument by C. S. Lewis; their dependence on the cultural situation in which they were deployed; an engagement with the interaction of magic, science, and religion; and the reasons for their continuing force and wide appeal.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9313	RELIGION	 368S	THEOLOGY/FICTION OF C.S. LEWIS	A study of texts of cultural criticism, fantasy fiction, and theological and moral argument by C. S. Lewis; their dependence on the cultural situation in which they were deployed; an engagement with the interaction of magic, science, and religion; and the reasons for their continuing force and wide appeal.	Seminar
9331	RELIGION	493	HONORS RESEARCH	Course credit contingent upon successful completion of Religion 494.  Consent of the director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
9331	RELIGION	493	HONORS RESEARCH	Course credit contingent upon successful completion of Religion 494.  Consent of the director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
9576	RUSSIAN	101	ELEMENTARY RUSSIAN I	Introduction to understanding, speaking, reading, and writing. Study of contemporary Russian language and important elements of Russian culture.	(FL) Foreign Language
9586	RUSSIAN	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered but are restricted to the study of literature, linguistics, and culture in the Slavic world.	Seminar
9586	RUSSIAN	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered but are restricted to the study of literature, linguistics, and culture in the Slavic world.	Topics Course
9591	RUSSIAN	203	INTERMEDIATE RUSSIAN I	Intensive classroom and laboratory practice in spoken and written patterns. Reading in contemporary literature.  Prerequisite: Russian 101 and 102, or two years of high school Russian.	(FL) Foreign Language
9608	RUSSIAN	 301S	CONTEM RUSSIAN COMP/READ	Advanced grammar and syntax with intense composition component. Analytical readings in the original.  Prerequisite: Russian 203 and 204, or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9608	RUSSIAN	 301S	CONTEM RUSSIAN COMP/READ	Advanced grammar and syntax with intense composition component. Analytical readings in the original.  Prerequisite: Russian 203 and 204, or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
9608	RUSSIAN	 301S	CONTEM RUSSIAN COMP/READ	Advanced grammar and syntax with intense composition component. Analytical readings in the original.  Prerequisite: Russian 203 and 204, or equivalent.	Seminar
9662	CULANTH	232	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9662	CULANTH	232	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(R) Research
9662	CULANTH	232	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(SS) Social Sciences
9662	GSF	232	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9662	GSF	232	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(R) Research
9662	GSF	232	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(SS) Social Sciences
9662	ICS	207	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9662	ICS	207	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(R) Research
9662	ICS	207	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(SS) Social Sciences
9662	LINGUIST	364	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9662	LINGUIST	364	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(R) Research
9662	LINGUIST	364	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(SS) Social Sciences
9662	RUSSIAN	364	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9662	RUSSIAN	364	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(R) Research
9662	RUSSIAN	364	GENDER AND LANGUAGE	Theoretical approaches to the question of the interrelationship of gender and language including neurobiology, psychology, semiotics, feminist critical theory, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and linguistic theory. Taught in English.	(SS) Social Sciences
9690	RUSSIAN	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
9690	RUSSIAN	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
9692	RUSSIAN	401	ADVANCED RUSSIAN	Intensive exposure to Russian word formation with an emphasis on the students' refinement of oral and written language skills. Development of discourse strategies and writing style through textual analysis, compositions and essays. Taught in Russian.  Prerequisite: Russian 302S or consent of instructor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9692	RUSSIAN	401	ADVANCED RUSSIAN	Intensive exposure to Russian word formation with an emphasis on the students' refinement of oral and written language skills. Development of discourse strategies and writing style through textual analysis, compositions and essays. Taught in Russian.  Prerequisite: Russian 302S or consent of instructor.	(FL) Foreign Language
9780	SOCIOL	110	SOCIOLOGICAL INQUIRY	Introduction to social networks, groups, organizations and institutions with a focus on the contemporary US. The impact of technology on social interaction and cultural change. Investigation of cultural and social construction of individual characteristics (e.g., race, gender) as well as of scientific and professional standards. Ethical controversies surrounding health care, education, income inequality, and related topics. Course will help prepare students for the social and behavioral science portion of the MCAT exam.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9780	SOCIOL	110	SOCIOLOGICAL INQUIRY	Introduction to social networks, groups, organizations and institutions with a focus on the contemporary US. The impact of technology on social interaction and cultural change. Investigation of cultural and social construction of individual characteristics (e.g., race, gender) as well as of scientific and professional standards. Ethical controversies surrounding health care, education, income inequality, and related topics. Course will help prepare students for the social and behavioral science portion of the MCAT exam.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9780	SOCIOL	110	SOCIOLOGICAL INQUIRY	Introduction to social networks, groups, organizations and institutions with a focus on the contemporary US. The impact of technology on social interaction and cultural change. Investigation of cultural and social construction of individual characteristics (e.g., race, gender) as well as of scientific and professional standards. Ethical controversies surrounding health care, education, income inequality, and related topics. Course will help prepare students for the social and behavioral science portion of the MCAT exam.	(SS) Social Sciences
9781	SOCIOL	210	SOCIAL PROBLEMS	Comparative analysis of social problems across historical periods, nations, and social groups by gender, race/ethnicity, social class, and culture. Major topics: deviant behavior, social conflict and inequality, human progress and social change. Emphasis on research issues, especially how and to what degree the understanding of social problems is a direct result of the inductive processes used to define social problems and the research methods and procedures used to investigate them.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9781	SOCIOL	210	SOCIAL PROBLEMS	Comparative analysis of social problems across historical periods, nations, and social groups by gender, race/ethnicity, social class, and culture. Major topics: deviant behavior, social conflict and inequality, human progress and social change. Emphasis on research issues, especially how and to what degree the understanding of social problems is a direct result of the inductive processes used to define social problems and the research methods and procedures used to investigate them.	(SS) Social Sciences
9789	SOCIOL	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
9789	SOCIOL	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
9813	AAAS	246	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9813	AAAS	246	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9813	AAAS	246	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(R) Research
9813	AAAS	246	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(SS) Social Sciences
9813	LSGS	316	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9813	LSGS	316	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9813	LSGS	316	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(R) Research
9813	LSGS	316	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(SS) Social Sciences
9813	RIGHTS	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9813	RIGHTS	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9813	RIGHTS	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(R) Research
9813	RIGHTS	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(SS) Social Sciences
9813	SOCIOL	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9813	SOCIOL	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9813	SOCIOL	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(R) Research
9813	SOCIOL	215	SOCIOLOGY OF RACISM IN AMERICA	Examines social history of major racial groups in the US and relationships to contemporary standing. Discusses central concepts sociologists use to analyze racial matters. Central theme: 'racism' is not mere 'prejudice,' 'ignorance,' or 'intolerance,' but a comprehensive historical system of racial domination organized around the logic of white supremacy. Discussion of 'whiteness' in the USAhow whiteness emerged as a social category, an identity based on experiences of variety of European 'peoples;' how it dominated the racial structure of the US since the 17th century, how wealth has been distributed along racial lines, racialization of Asians and Latinos, and color blind racism.	(SS) Social Sciences
9815	SOCIOL	218	SEX, GENDER, AND SOCIETY	Nature and acquisition of sex roles. Cross-cultural variations. Developing nature of sex roles in American society.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9815	SOCIOL	218	SEX, GENDER, AND SOCIETY	Nature and acquisition of sex roles. Cross-cultural variations. Developing nature of sex roles in American society.	(SS) Social Sciences
9819	SOCIOL	222	CRIMINAL JUSTICE	Overview of the inner workings and ethics of the US criminal justice process, including criminal legislation, police procedures, courts, and corrections. Explores case studies, empirical research, film, theories, and policies to understand and evaluate how values, culture, and the distribution of power and resources in the United States shape its punishment regime. Focuses on class, gender, ethnic, racial, nationality, and age inequalities in the justice system.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9819	SOCIOL	222	CRIMINAL JUSTICE	Overview of the inner workings and ethics of the US criminal justice process, including criminal legislation, police procedures, courts, and corrections. Explores case studies, empirical research, film, theories, and policies to understand and evaluate how values, culture, and the distribution of power and resources in the United States shape its punishment regime. Focuses on class, gender, ethnic, racial, nationality, and age inequalities in the justice system.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9819	SOCIOL	222	CRIMINAL JUSTICE	Overview of the inner workings and ethics of the US criminal justice process, including criminal legislation, police procedures, courts, and corrections. Explores case studies, empirical research, film, theories, and policies to understand and evaluate how values, culture, and the distribution of power and resources in the United States shape its punishment regime. Focuses on class, gender, ethnic, racial, nationality, and age inequalities in the justice system.	(SS) Social Sciences
9824	SOCIOL	332	METHODS SOCIAL RESEARCH	Principles of social research, design of sociological studies, sampling, and data collection with special attention to survey techniques. Open only to Sociology majors. Sociology minors must contact the professor for approval.	(R) Research
9824	SOCIOL	332	METHODS SOCIAL RESEARCH	Principles of social research, design of sociological studies, sampling, and data collection with special attention to survey techniques. Open only to Sociology majors. Sociology minors must contact the professor for approval.	(SS) Social Sciences
9824	SOCIOL	332	METHODS SOCIAL RESEARCH	Principles of social research, design of sociological studies, sampling, and data collection with special attention to survey techniques. Open only to Sociology majors. Sociology minors must contact the professor for approval.	(W) Writing
9836	SOCIOL	345	NAT/REG/GLOBAL ECONOMY	The changing configuration of global capitalism, with emphasis on comparing global regions of North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa, and Asia. The internal dynamics of these regions, including the development strategies of selected nations, interregional comparisons (for example, regional divisions of labor, state-society relationships, the nature of their business systems, quality of life issues). Research paper required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9836	SOCIOL	345	NAT/REG/GLOBAL ECONOMY	The changing configuration of global capitalism, with emphasis on comparing global regions of North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa, and Asia. The internal dynamics of these regions, including the development strategies of selected nations, interregional comparisons (for example, regional divisions of labor, state-society relationships, the nature of their business systems, quality of life issues). Research paper required.	(R) Research
9836	SOCIOL	345	NAT/REG/GLOBAL ECONOMY	The changing configuration of global capitalism, with emphasis on comparing global regions of North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa, and Asia. The internal dynamics of these regions, including the development strategies of selected nations, interregional comparisons (for example, regional divisions of labor, state-society relationships, the nature of their business systems, quality of life issues). Research paper required.	(SS) Social Sciences
9844	SOCIOL	355	ORGANIZATIONS/MANAGEMENT	Dimensions and aspects of modern organizations and concepts and tools for analyzing them. Special attention to the impact of changing social and technological environments on the evolution of organizational structures and strategies and on issues related to business ethics. The structure and operation of organizations; how organizations are managed by analyzing processes of organizational decision making; business case studies as illustrative of the concepts and the analytical tools.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
9844	SOCIOL	355	ORGANIZATIONS/MANAGEMENT	Dimensions and aspects of modern organizations and concepts and tools for analyzing them. Special attention to the impact of changing social and technological environments on the evolution of organizational structures and strategies and on issues related to business ethics. The structure and operation of organizations; how organizations are managed by analyzing processes of organizational decision making; business case studies as illustrative of the concepts and the analytical tools.	(SS) Social Sciences
9844	SOCIOL	355	ORGANIZATIONS/MANAGEMENT	Dimensions and aspects of modern organizations and concepts and tools for analyzing them. Special attention to the impact of changing social and technological environments on the evolution of organizational structures and strategies and on issues related to business ethics. The structure and operation of organizations; how organizations are managed by analyzing processes of organizational decision making; business case studies as illustrative of the concepts and the analytical tools.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
9847	SOCIOL	258	MARKETS AND MARKETING	Markets as systems of social exchange: their organization and development with special reference to the role of technological change in market evolution in various parts of the industrialized world. Sociological analysis of contemporary marketing including cross-national comparisons and the role of internet technologies; researching and preparing a marketing plan. Coverage of marketing includes attention to issues of values and ethics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9847	SOCIOL	258	MARKETS AND MARKETING	Markets as systems of social exchange: their organization and development with special reference to the role of technological change in market evolution in various parts of the industrialized world. Sociological analysis of contemporary marketing including cross-national comparisons and the role of internet technologies; researching and preparing a marketing plan. Coverage of marketing includes attention to issues of values and ethics.	(R) Research
9847	SOCIOL	258	MARKETS AND MARKETING	Markets as systems of social exchange: their organization and development with special reference to the role of technological change in market evolution in various parts of the industrialized world. Sociological analysis of contemporary marketing including cross-national comparisons and the role of internet technologies; researching and preparing a marketing plan. Coverage of marketing includes attention to issues of values and ethics.	(SS) Social Sciences
9847	SOCIOL	258	MARKETS AND MARKETING	Markets as systems of social exchange: their organization and development with special reference to the role of technological change in market evolution in various parts of the industrialized world. Sociological analysis of contemporary marketing including cross-national comparisons and the role of internet technologies; researching and preparing a marketing plan. Coverage of marketing includes attention to issues of values and ethics.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
9848	SOCIOL	359	ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Analysis of the psychological, religious, cultural, economic, political, and historical roots of entrepreneurship. Supply side and demand side perspectives. How to interpret theories at multiple levels of analysis to understanding entrepreneurship. Examines research on new business formation and the likelihood of success.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
9848	SOCIOL	359	ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Analysis of the psychological, religious, cultural, economic, political, and historical roots of entrepreneurship. Supply side and demand side perspectives. How to interpret theories at multiple levels of analysis to understanding entrepreneurship. Examines research on new business formation and the likelihood of success.	(SS) Social Sciences
9850	GLHLTH	340	US HEALTH DISPARITIES	Introduction to how social factors influence health and well-being, with a particular focus on contemporary US society. Topics include obesity, aging, socioeconomic disadvantage, access to health insurance, public health systems, the role of the media, and racial/ethnic and gender inequalities. The course will provide descriptive assessments of health inequalities and analytic examinations of the mechanisms through which social factors affect health.	(SS) Social Sciences
9850	SOCIOL	361	US HEALTH DISPARITIES	Introduction to how social factors influence health and well-being, with a particular focus on contemporary US society. Topics include obesity, aging, socioeconomic disadvantage, access to health insurance, public health systems, the role of the media, and racial/ethnic and gender inequalities. The course will provide descriptive assessments of health inequalities and analytic examinations of the mechanisms through which social factors affect health.	(SS) Social Sciences
9878	SOCIOL	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading or individual projects under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
9879	SOCIOL	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
9879	SOCIOL	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
9880	SOCIOL	 290S	SEMINAR SPECIAL TOPICS		Seminar
9880	SOCIOL	 290S	SEMINAR SPECIAL TOPICS		Topics Course
10020	SPANISH	101	ELEMENTARY SPANISH 1	Introduces the basic elements of the language and includes exposure to aspects of Spanish-speaking cultures. Equal attention to aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing skills conducted entirely in Spanish using a task-based approach. Four class meetings a week during the academic year, five days per week during the summer. Not open for credit to students who have had three or more years of Spanish in high school. Prerequisite: No previous college study of Spanish, or no more than three years of high school Spanish, or appropriate language placement score.	(FL) Foreign Language
10022	SPANISH	102	ELEMENTARY SPANISH 2	This course builds on the elements of the language acquired in Elementary Spanish 101; enrollment in Spanish 102 presupposes acquisition of the contents covered in Spanish 101. Speaking, reading, and writing skills emphasized; exposure to Spanish-speaking cultures. Classes conducted entirely in Spanish, using a task-based approach. Four class meetings a week during the academic year, five days per week during the summer. Prerequisite: Spanish 101 or appropriate placement test score.	(FL) Foreign Language
10026	SPANISH	211	INTENSIVE INTERMEDIATE SPANISH	This two-credit course covers the intermediate Spanish language curriculum (Spanish 203 and 204) in one semester. Builds on the elements of the language acquired in the elementary sequence; enrollment in this course presupposes acquisition of Spanish 101 and 102 contents. Further development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Expanding range and sophistication of grammar usage and vocabulary. Exposure to Spanish-speaking cultures. Increasing ability to structure ideas in speaking and writing. Work with comprehension and production of texts of greater extension. Prepares students for 300-level Spanish courses. Four class meetings a week.	(CZ) Civilizations
10026	SPANISH	211	INTENSIVE INTERMEDIATE SPANISH	This two-credit course covers the intermediate Spanish language curriculum (Spanish 203 and 204) in one semester. Builds on the elements of the language acquired in the elementary sequence; enrollment in this course presupposes acquisition of Spanish 101 and 102 contents. Further development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Expanding range and sophistication of grammar usage and vocabulary. Exposure to Spanish-speaking cultures. Increasing ability to structure ideas in speaking and writing. Work with comprehension and production of texts of greater extension. Prepares students for 300-level Spanish courses. Four class meetings a week.	(FL) Foreign Language
10031	SPANISH	203	INTERMEDIATE SPANISH	This course builds on the elements of the language acquired in the elementary sequence; enrollment in this course presupposes acquisition of Spanish 101 and 102 contents. Continued development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Expanding range and complexity of grammar usage and vocabulary. Exposure to Spanish-speaking cultures. Prerequisite: Spanish 102 or 111, or appropriate placement test score.	(CZ) Civilizations
10031	SPANISH	203	INTERMEDIATE SPANISH	This course builds on the elements of the language acquired in the elementary sequence; enrollment in this course presupposes acquisition of Spanish 101 and 102 contents. Continued development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Expanding range and complexity of grammar usage and vocabulary. Exposure to Spanish-speaking cultures. Prerequisite: Spanish 102 or 111, or appropriate placement test score.	(FL) Foreign Language
10035	SPANISH	204	ADV INTERMEDIATE SPANISH	This course builds on the elements of the language acquired in Spanish 101 through 203. Further development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Expanding range and sophistication of grammar usage and vocabulary. Exposure to Spanish-speaking cultures. Work with comprehension and production of texts of greater extension and complexity. Prepares students for 300-level Spanish courses. Prerequisite: Spanish 203, or appropriate placement test score.	(CZ) Civilizations
10035	SPANISH	204	ADV INTERMEDIATE SPANISH	This course builds on the elements of the language acquired in Spanish 101 through 203. Further development of the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Expanding range and sophistication of grammar usage and vocabulary. Exposure to Spanish-speaking cultures. Work with comprehension and production of texts of greater extension and complexity. Prepares students for 300-level Spanish courses. Prerequisite: Spanish 203, or appropriate placement test score.	(FL) Foreign Language
10038	SPANISH	301	ADV SPANISH WRITING	Development of academic writing skills in Spanish with a focus on techniques for identifying a topic, conducting research, organizing information to appeal to readers, drafting, revising, and editing. Focus on improving grammatical and lexical variety and accuracy in students' writing in Spanish. Peer feedback and group work are key activities in the course. Products include a summary, an analysis written collaboratively, and a 6-8 page research paper and presentation. This course is strongly recommended before enrolling in Spanish 331S and higher courses.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
10038	SPANISH	301	ADV SPANISH WRITING	Development of academic writing skills in Spanish with a focus on techniques for identifying a topic, conducting research, organizing information to appeal to readers, drafting, revising, and editing. Focus on improving grammatical and lexical variety and accuracy in students' writing in Spanish. Peer feedback and group work are key activities in the course. Products include a summary, an analysis written collaboratively, and a 6-8 page research paper and presentation. This course is strongly recommended before enrolling in Spanish 331S and higher courses.	(FL) Foreign Language
10038	SPANISH	301	ADV SPANISH WRITING	Development of academic writing skills in Spanish with a focus on techniques for identifying a topic, conducting research, organizing information to appeal to readers, drafting, revising, and editing. Focus on improving grammatical and lexical variety and accuracy in students' writing in Spanish. Peer feedback and group work are key activities in the course. Products include a summary, an analysis written collaboratively, and a 6-8 page research paper and presentation. This course is strongly recommended before enrolling in Spanish 331S and higher courses.	(W) Writing
10049	SPANISH	 331S	INTRO LIT FILM POPULAR CULTURE	Introduction to a wide variety of texts from both Spain and Latin America, with emphasis on how they can mean different things to different readers. Course develops student skills in reading, writing, and speaking, and emphasizes personal approaches to readings. Recommended prerequisite: Spanish 301, or AP score of 5 on Spanish Language exam, or SATII score of 660+, or other equivalent experience. Students who have taken more than one course above 331S should not take this course.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
10049	SPANISH	 331S	INTRO LIT FILM POPULAR CULTURE	Introduction to a wide variety of texts from both Spain and Latin America, with emphasis on how they can mean different things to different readers. Course develops student skills in reading, writing, and speaking, and emphasizes personal approaches to readings. Recommended prerequisite: Spanish 301, or AP score of 5 on Spanish Language exam, or SATII score of 660+, or other equivalent experience. Students who have taken more than one course above 331S should not take this course.	(FL) Foreign Language
10049	SPANISH	 331S	INTRO LIT FILM POPULAR CULTURE	Introduction to a wide variety of texts from both Spain and Latin America, with emphasis on how they can mean different things to different readers. Course develops student skills in reading, writing, and speaking, and emphasizes personal approaches to readings. Recommended prerequisite: Spanish 301, or AP score of 5 on Spanish Language exam, or SATII score of 660+, or other equivalent experience. Students who have taken more than one course above 331S should not take this course.	Seminar
10051	SPANISH	333	INTRO LITERATURE & VISUAL ARTS	Survey of literature and painting in Spain from the mid-17th to the late 20th c., taking as an entry point the work of Velzquez, Goya, Picasso and Maruja Mallo as well as painters and writers from the Generation of 1898. Besides studying comparatively literary and pictorial texts, students will view major historical films that depict and interpret the lives and times of the artists just mentioned. Recurring themes include minority identities, women's rights, socio-economic exclusion and various forms of protest in addition to such community-making performances as religious worship, popular festivals and public spectacles. Prerequisite: Spanish 301, 331S, or AP Spanish Literature score of 5.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
10051	SPANISH	333	INTRO LITERATURE & VISUAL ARTS	Survey of literature and painting in Spain from the mid-17th to the late 20th c., taking as an entry point the work of Velzquez, Goya, Picasso and Maruja Mallo as well as painters and writers from the Generation of 1898. Besides studying comparatively literary and pictorial texts, students will view major historical films that depict and interpret the lives and times of the artists just mentioned. Recurring themes include minority identities, women's rights, socio-economic exclusion and various forms of protest in addition to such community-making performances as religious worship, popular festivals and public spectacles. Prerequisite: Spanish 301, 331S, or AP Spanish Literature score of 5.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
10051	SPANISH	333	INTRO LITERATURE & VISUAL ARTS	Survey of literature and painting in Spain from the mid-17th to the late 20th c., taking as an entry point the work of Velzquez, Goya, Picasso and Maruja Mallo as well as painters and writers from the Generation of 1898. Besides studying comparatively literary and pictorial texts, students will view major historical films that depict and interpret the lives and times of the artists just mentioned. Recurring themes include minority identities, women's rights, socio-economic exclusion and various forms of protest in addition to such community-making performances as religious worship, popular festivals and public spectacles. Prerequisite: Spanish 301, 331S, or AP Spanish Literature score of 5.	(FL) Foreign Language
10054	SPANISH	334	INTRO SPAN-AMER LIT: 16-18 C	A survey of major writers and movements from the periods of discovery to conquest, colonial rule, and early independence. Includes works by native Indian, 'mestizo', and women writers. Prerequisite: Spanish 301, 331S, or AP Spanish Literature score of 5.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
10054	SPANISH	334	INTRO SPAN-AMER LIT: 16-18 C	A survey of major writers and movements from the periods of discovery to conquest, colonial rule, and early independence. Includes works by native Indian, 'mestizo', and women writers. Prerequisite: Spanish 301, 331S, or AP Spanish Literature score of 5.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
10054	SPANISH	334	INTRO SPAN-AMER LIT: 16-18 C	A survey of major writers and movements from the periods of discovery to conquest, colonial rule, and early independence. Includes works by native Indian, 'mestizo', and women writers. Prerequisite: Spanish 301, 331S, or AP Spanish Literature score of 5.	(FL) Foreign Language
10094	MEDREN	459	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
10094	MEDREN	459	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
10094	MEDREN	459	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(CZ) Civilizations
10094	MEDREN	459	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(FL) Foreign Language
10094	SPANISH	411	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
10094	SPANISH	411	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
10094	SPANISH	411	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(CZ) Civilizations
10094	SPANISH	411	GOLDEN AGE LIT:CERVANTES	Includes reading either selected works by Cervantes (dramas, novellas, and part of Don Quixote) or the Quixote in its entirety. Attention to the Roman and/or Arab conquests of Spain, Spanish relations with Algeria, England, Italy, and the Americas, the obsession with 'limpieza de sangre' and the fate of Spain's 'morisco' population. Prerequisite: Spanish 332, 333, 334 or 335.	(FL) Foreign Language
10107	SPANISH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
10107	SPANISH	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified juniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
10109	SPANISH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Spanish 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
10109	SPANISH	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Spanish 393. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
10184	STA	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
10184	STA	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
10266	UKRAIN	111	INTEN ELEM UKRAINIAN	Ukrainian 1 and 2 combined in one semester. Two meetings daily. Required recording-listening practice in the language laboratory. Work on understanding, speaking, reading, and writing. Survey of main elements of grammar. No preliminary knowledge of Ukrainian necessary. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required.	(FL) Foreign Language
10428	GSF	 290S	SELECTED TOPICS	Seminar version of GSF 290.	Seminar
10428	GSF	 290S	SELECTED TOPICS	Seminar version of GSF 290.	Topics Course
10431	GSF	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and program director required.	Independent Study
10437	GSF	 499S	SENIOR SEMINAR (TOP)	Advanced research course for majors in Women's Studies. Topics vary by semester. Students produce a significant research paper. Consent of instructor required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
10437	GSF	 499S	SENIOR SEMINAR (TOP)	Advanced research course for majors in Women's Studies. Topics vary by semester. Students produce a significant research paper. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
10437	GSF	 499S	SENIOR SEMINAR (TOP)	Advanced research course for majors in Women's Studies. Topics vary by semester. Students produce a significant research paper. Consent of instructor required.	(W) Writing
10437	GSF	 499S	SENIOR SEMINAR (TOP)	Advanced research course for majors in Women's Studies. Topics vary by semester. Students produce a significant research paper. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
10977	ECS	101	THE DYNAMIC EARTH	Introduction to the dynamic processes that shape the Earth and the environment and their impact upon society. Volcanoes, earthquakes, seafloor spreading, floods, landslides, groundwater, seashores and geohazards. Emphasis on examining the lines of inductive and deductive reasoning, quantitative methods, modes of inquiry, and technological developments that lead to understanding the Earth's dynamic systems.	(NS) Natural Sciences
10977	ECS	101	THE DYNAMIC EARTH	Introduction to the dynamic processes that shape the Earth and the environment and their impact upon society. Volcanoes, earthquakes, seafloor spreading, floods, landslides, groundwater, seashores and geohazards. Emphasis on examining the lines of inductive and deductive reasoning, quantitative methods, modes of inquiry, and technological developments that lead to understanding the Earth's dynamic systems.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
10977	EOS	101	THE DYNAMIC EARTH	Introduction to the dynamic processes that shape the Earth and the environment and their impact upon society. Volcanoes, earthquakes, seafloor spreading, floods, landslides, groundwater, seashores and geohazards. Emphasis on examining the lines of inductive and deductive reasoning, quantitative methods, modes of inquiry, and technological developments that lead to understanding the Earth's dynamic systems.	(NS) Natural Sciences
10977	EOS	101	THE DYNAMIC EARTH	Introduction to the dynamic processes that shape the Earth and the environment and their impact upon society. Volcanoes, earthquakes, seafloor spreading, floods, landslides, groundwater, seashores and geohazards. Emphasis on examining the lines of inductive and deductive reasoning, quantitative methods, modes of inquiry, and technological developments that lead to understanding the Earth's dynamic systems.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
11633	NAVALSCI	 423S	LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS	Capstone Course that examines principles of leadership and ethical decision-making through study and interactive discussion of classical and contemporary course documents and case studies. Coursework includes Constitutional Law, Natural Law Theory, as well as works by Kant, Mill, and Aristotle, among others.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
11633	NAVALSCI	 423S	LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS	Capstone Course that examines principles of leadership and ethical decision-making through study and interactive discussion of classical and contemporary course documents and case studies. Coursework includes Constitutional Law, Natural Law Theory, as well as works by Kant, Mill, and Aristotle, among others.	Seminar
12051	HISTORY	290	HISTORY SPECIAL TOPICS	Topics vary from semester to semester.	Topics Course
12627	WRITING	101	ACADEMIC WRITING	Instruction in the complexities of producing sophisticated academic argument, with attention to critical analysis and rhetorical practices. Topics vary by section.	Topics Course
12653	PORTUGUE	 301S	ADV COLLOQ PORTUGUESE	Study of colloquial Portuguese as a catalyst of popular culture; sayings, expressions, and proverbs. Emphasis on oral communication. We will do an examination of the factors that have had a cultural impact in the Portuguese language involving religion, gender, politics, or ethnicity. We will study such things as everyday talk; i/literacy and identity; stories, legends; comedy, poetry, music, advertisements, the influence of English in the Portuguese language; the machismo in the everyday vocabulary. How these linguistic/cultural phenomena both represent and complicate our notions of cultural norms in the learning of the Portuguese language.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
12653	PORTUGUE	 301S	ADV COLLOQ PORTUGUESE	Study of colloquial Portuguese as a catalyst of popular culture; sayings, expressions, and proverbs. Emphasis on oral communication. We will do an examination of the factors that have had a cultural impact in the Portuguese language involving religion, gender, politics, or ethnicity. We will study such things as everyday talk; i/literacy and identity; stories, legends; comedy, poetry, music, advertisements, the influence of English in the Portuguese language; the machismo in the everyday vocabulary. How these linguistic/cultural phenomena both represent and complicate our notions of cultural norms in the learning of the Portuguese language.	(FL) Foreign Language
12653	PORTUGUE	 301S	ADV COLLOQ PORTUGUESE	Study of colloquial Portuguese as a catalyst of popular culture; sayings, expressions, and proverbs. Emphasis on oral communication. We will do an examination of the factors that have had a cultural impact in the Portuguese language involving religion, gender, politics, or ethnicity. We will study such things as everyday talk; i/literacy and identity; stories, legends; comedy, poetry, music, advertisements, the influence of English in the Portuguese language; the machismo in the everyday vocabulary. How these linguistic/cultural phenomena both represent and complicate our notions of cultural norms in the learning of the Portuguese language.	(W) Writing
12653	PORTUGUE	 301S	ADV COLLOQ PORTUGUESE	Study of colloquial Portuguese as a catalyst of popular culture; sayings, expressions, and proverbs. Emphasis on oral communication. We will do an examination of the factors that have had a cultural impact in the Portuguese language involving religion, gender, politics, or ethnicity. We will study such things as everyday talk; i/literacy and identity; stories, legends; comedy, poetry, music, advertisements, the influence of English in the Portuguese language; the machismo in the everyday vocabulary. How these linguistic/cultural phenomena both represent and complicate our notions of cultural norms in the learning of the Portuguese language.	Seminar
12704	BIOLOGY	 417S	GENETIC ENGINEER/BIOTECH	Applications of recombinant DNA in medicine and in agriculture. Topics include diagnosis of genetic diseases, gene therapy, drugs for AIDS and cancer, DNA fingerprinting, cloning of mammals, phytoremediation, crop improvement, and pharmaceutical protein production in transgenic plants and animals. Social and environmental impacts of biotechnology. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, 203L, or 220, or lab experience or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
12704	BIOLOGY	 417S	GENETIC ENGINEER/BIOTECH	Applications of recombinant DNA in medicine and in agriculture. Topics include diagnosis of genetic diseases, gene therapy, drugs for AIDS and cancer, DNA fingerprinting, cloning of mammals, phytoremediation, crop improvement, and pharmaceutical protein production in transgenic plants and animals. Social and environmental impacts of biotechnology. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, 203L, or 220, or lab experience or consent of instructor.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
12704	BIOLOGY	 417S	GENETIC ENGINEER/BIOTECH	Applications of recombinant DNA in medicine and in agriculture. Topics include diagnosis of genetic diseases, gene therapy, drugs for AIDS and cancer, DNA fingerprinting, cloning of mammals, phytoremediation, crop improvement, and pharmaceutical protein production in transgenic plants and animals. Social and environmental impacts of biotechnology. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, 203L, or 220, or lab experience or consent of instructor.	Seminar
12704	SCISOC	 417S	GENETIC ENGINEER/BIOTECH	Applications of recombinant DNA in medicine and in agriculture. Topics include diagnosis of genetic diseases, gene therapy, drugs for AIDS and cancer, DNA fingerprinting, cloning of mammals, phytoremediation, crop improvement, and pharmaceutical protein production in transgenic plants and animals. Social and environmental impacts of biotechnology. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, 203L, or 220, or lab experience or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
12704	SCISOC	 417S	GENETIC ENGINEER/BIOTECH	Applications of recombinant DNA in medicine and in agriculture. Topics include diagnosis of genetic diseases, gene therapy, drugs for AIDS and cancer, DNA fingerprinting, cloning of mammals, phytoremediation, crop improvement, and pharmaceutical protein production in transgenic plants and animals. Social and environmental impacts of biotechnology. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, 203L, or 220, or lab experience or consent of instructor.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
12704	SCISOC	 417S	GENETIC ENGINEER/BIOTECH	Applications of recombinant DNA in medicine and in agriculture. Topics include diagnosis of genetic diseases, gene therapy, drugs for AIDS and cancer, DNA fingerprinting, cloning of mammals, phytoremediation, crop improvement, and pharmaceutical protein production in transgenic plants and animals. Social and environmental impacts of biotechnology. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, 203L, or 220, or lab experience or consent of instructor.	Seminar
12868	BME	394	PROJECTS IN BIOMED ENG	For juniors and seniors who express a desire for such work and who have shown aptitude for research in one area of biomedical engineering. Reserved for Engineering Undergraduate Fellows. Consent of program director required.	Independent Study
12974	LIT	 190S	SP TOPICS:INTRO TO LITERATURE	Introduction to the study of literature and other forms of cultural expression, such as film. Different introductory approaches will be used in each section (for example, a systematic account of literary genres, a historical survey of ideas and forms of fiction, concepts of authorship and subjectivity, or of literary meaning and interpretation). More than one national literature or culture represented.	Seminar
12974	LIT	 190S	SP TOPICS:INTRO TO LITERATURE	Introduction to the study of literature and other forms of cultural expression, such as film. Different introductory approaches will be used in each section (for example, a systematic account of literary genres, a historical survey of ideas and forms of fiction, concepts of authorship and subjectivity, or of literary meaning and interpretation). More than one national literature or culture represented.	Topics Course
12976	MUSIC	120	MUSIC: AN INTRODUCTION	Study of the components of music (e.g. melody, rhythm) through comparative listening to styles from different places and times, ranging from current popular artists to classical, jazz, and world music. Discussion of the shared and unique aspects of these styles, their historical and cultural links, and how those shape our tastes.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
12976	MUSIC	120	MUSIC: AN INTRODUCTION	Study of the components of music (e.g. melody, rhythm) through comparative listening to styles from different places and times, ranging from current popular artists to classical, jazz, and world music. Discussion of the shared and unique aspects of these styles, their historical and cultural links, and how those shape our tastes.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
12976	MUSIC	120	MUSIC: AN INTRODUCTION	Study of the components of music (e.g. melody, rhythm) through comparative listening to styles from different places and times, ranging from current popular artists to classical, jazz, and world music. Discussion of the shared and unique aspects of these styles, their historical and cultural links, and how those shape our tastes.	(CZ) Civilizations
12990	PORTUGUE	203	INTERMEDIATE PORTUGUESE	Intensive language review of reading, writing, and oral practice, with increased attention to grammatical variety and accuracy. Cultural component emphasized through short readings, videos, music. Recommended prerequisite: Portuguese 102 or 112.	(CZ) Civilizations
12990	PORTUGUE	203	INTERMEDIATE PORTUGUESE	Intensive language review of reading, writing, and oral practice, with increased attention to grammatical variety and accuracy. Cultural component emphasized through short readings, videos, music. Recommended prerequisite: Portuguese 102 or 112.	(FL) Foreign Language
12996	CINE	 366S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
12996	CINE	 366S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12996	CINE	 366S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12996	DOCST	 367S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
12996	DOCST	 367S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12996	DOCST	 367S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12996	PJMS	 365S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
12996	PJMS	 365S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12996	PJMS	 365S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12996	PUBPOL	 365S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
12996	PUBPOL	 365S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12996	PUBPOL	 365S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12996	VMS	 305S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
12996	VMS	 305S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12996	VMS	 305S	VIDEO JOURNALISM	Theories and concepts of television broadcasting; writing and editing for electronic media; issues of production. Students will produce a Web portfolio. Approved as a practicum course for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12997	DOCST	 356S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12997	DOCST	 356S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(W) Writing
12997	DOCST	 356S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12997	PJMS	 366S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12997	PJMS	 366S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(W) Writing
12997	PJMS	 366S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12997	PUBPOL	 366S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(SS) Social Sciences
12997	PUBPOL	 366S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	(W) Writing
12997	PUBPOL	 366S	LONG-FORM JOURNALISM	Storytelling techniques of magazine journalism; reporting and writing strategies; historical and contemporary writing for magazines in print and digital formats. Students develop experience in different kinds of magazine writing. Approved as a practicum course required for the Policy, Journalism and Media Studies certificate.	Seminar
12998	PJMS	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	(R) Research
12998	PJMS	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	(SS) Social Sciences
12998	PJMS	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	(W) Writing
12998	PJMS	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	Seminar
12998	PUBPOL	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	(R) Research
12998	PUBPOL	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	(SS) Social Sciences
12998	PUBPOL	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	(W) Writing
12998	PUBPOL	 367S	NEWS WRITING AND REPORTING	Seminar on reporting and writing news and feature stories. Students required to produce news stories based on original reporting and writing, including interviews, use of the Internet and electronic databases, public records, and written publications. Written assignments critiqued in class; final project.	Seminar
13010	HINDI	 407S	ISSUES IN HINDI LANG/SOC I	Readings in prevailing literary and mass media forms. Prerequisite: Hindi 306 or consent of instructor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13010	HINDI	 407S	ISSUES IN HINDI LANG/SOC I	Readings in prevailing literary and mass media forms. Prerequisite: Hindi 306 or consent of instructor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
13010	HINDI	 407S	ISSUES IN HINDI LANG/SOC I	Readings in prevailing literary and mass media forms. Prerequisite: Hindi 306 or consent of instructor.	(FL) Foreign Language
13010	HINDI	 407S	ISSUES IN HINDI LANG/SOC I	Readings in prevailing literary and mass media forms. Prerequisite: Hindi 306 or consent of instructor.	Seminar
13019	STA	 101L	DATA ANALY/STAT INFER	Introduction to statistics as a science of understanding and analyzing data. Themes include data collection, exploratory analysis, inference, and modeling. Focus on principles underlying quantitative research in social sciences, humanities, and public policy. Research projects teach the process of scientific discovery and synthesis and critical evaluation of research and statistical arguments. Readings give perspective on why in 1950, S. Wilks said, 'Statistical thinking will one day be as necessary a qualification for efficient citizenship as the ability to read and write.' See department website for placement information. Not open to students who have taken Statistical Science 100 or above.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
13019	STA	 101L	DATA ANALY/STAT INFER	Introduction to statistics as a science of understanding and analyzing data. Themes include data collection, exploratory analysis, inference, and modeling. Focus on principles underlying quantitative research in social sciences, humanities, and public policy. Research projects teach the process of scientific discovery and synthesis and critical evaluation of research and statistical arguments. Readings give perspective on why in 1950, S. Wilks said, 'Statistical thinking will one day be as necessary a qualification for efficient citizenship as the ability to read and write.' See department website for placement information. Not open to students who have taken Statistical Science 100 or above.	(R) Research
13019	STA	 101L	DATA ANALY/STAT INFER	Introduction to statistics as a science of understanding and analyzing data. Themes include data collection, exploratory analysis, inference, and modeling. Focus on principles underlying quantitative research in social sciences, humanities, and public policy. Research projects teach the process of scientific discovery and synthesis and critical evaluation of research and statistical arguments. Readings give perspective on why in 1950, S. Wilks said, 'Statistical thinking will one day be as necessary a qualification for efficient citizenship as the ability to read and write.' See department website for placement information. Not open to students who have taken Statistical Science 100 or above.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
13023	STA	 102L	INTRO BIOSTATISTICS	Reading and interpretation of statistical analysis from life and health sciences. Topics include: basic concepts and tools of probability, estimation, inference, decisions analysis, and modeling. Emphasizes role of biostatistics in modern society. See department website for placement information. Not open to students who have taken Statistical Science 100 or above.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
13023	STA	 102L	INTRO BIOSTATISTICS	Reading and interpretation of statistical analysis from life and health sciences. Topics include: basic concepts and tools of probability, estimation, inference, decisions analysis, and modeling. Emphasizes role of biostatistics in modern society. See department website for placement information. Not open to students who have taken Statistical Science 100 or above.	(R) Research
13023	STA	 102L	INTRO BIOSTATISTICS	Reading and interpretation of statistical analysis from life and health sciences. Topics include: basic concepts and tools of probability, estimation, inference, decisions analysis, and modeling. Emphasizes role of biostatistics in modern society. See department website for placement information. Not open to students who have taken Statistical Science 100 or above.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
13025	LINGUIST	301	ADVANCED SPANISH GRAMMAR	Intended to foster students' reflection on Spanish grammar and to consolidate students' knowledge of the system of rules underlying the Spanish language. Special attention is given to grammar in oral and written communication. Recommended prerequisite: Spanish 204 or appropriate placement test score.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
13025	LINGUIST	301	ADVANCED SPANISH GRAMMAR	Intended to foster students' reflection on Spanish grammar and to consolidate students' knowledge of the system of rules underlying the Spanish language. Special attention is given to grammar in oral and written communication. Recommended prerequisite: Spanish 204 or appropriate placement test score.	(FL) Foreign Language
13025	SPANISH	302	ADVANCED SPANISH GRAMMAR	Intended to foster students' reflection on Spanish grammar and to consolidate students' knowledge of the system of rules underlying the Spanish language. Special attention is given to grammar in oral and written communication. Recommended prerequisite: Spanish 204 or appropriate placement test score.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
13025	SPANISH	302	ADVANCED SPANISH GRAMMAR	Intended to foster students' reflection on Spanish grammar and to consolidate students' knowledge of the system of rules underlying the Spanish language. Special attention is given to grammar in oral and written communication. Recommended prerequisite: Spanish 204 or appropriate placement test score.	(FL) Foreign Language
13026	SPANISH	303	INTRO CULTURAL STUDIES	Introduction to ideologies and political debates that shape the cultural configuration of Hispanic communities both within and outside the US Borders. The main goal is to explore and examine critically how particular discourses (within different genres and media) relate to politics, art, culture, and society. Articles, literary texts, films, web sites, etc. will serve as resources. As students engage with cultural studies, it is expected that they achieve discursive complexity and linguistic accuracy through vocabulary development, group and individual presentations, video recordings, writing projects and debates. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
13026	SPANISH	303	INTRO CULTURAL STUDIES	Introduction to ideologies and political debates that shape the cultural configuration of Hispanic communities both within and outside the US Borders. The main goal is to explore and examine critically how particular discourses (within different genres and media) relate to politics, art, culture, and society. Articles, literary texts, films, web sites, etc. will serve as resources. As students engage with cultural studies, it is expected that they achieve discursive complexity and linguistic accuracy through vocabulary development, group and individual presentations, video recordings, writing projects and debates. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
13039	RELIGION	 190FS	FOCUS SEMINARS (TOP)	Topics vary from semester to semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
13039	RELIGION	 190FS	FOCUS SEMINARS (TOP)	Topics vary from semester to semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Topics Course
13041	SPANISH	496	HONORS THESIS	Directed research and writing of honors thesis. Open only to qualified seniors pursuing the Graduation with Distinction track by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
13041	SPANISH	496	HONORS THESIS	Directed research and writing of honors thesis. Open only to qualified seniors pursuing the Graduation with Distinction track by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
13112	CEE	493	RESEARCH INDEP STUDY IN CEE	Research project mentored by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Course may be taken by junior and senior students who have demonstrated aptitude for independent work. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
13112	CEE	493	RESEARCH INDEP STUDY IN CEE	Research project mentored by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Course may be taken by junior and senior students who have demonstrated aptitude for independent work. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
13115	ME	493	ENGRG UNDERGRAD FELLOW	Continuation course for Engineering Undergraduate Fellows, contingent upon satisfactory completion of 394. Consent required.	Independent Study
13134	CINE	 302S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13134	CINE	 302S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(W) Writing
13134	CINE	 302S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	Seminar
13134	ENGLISH	 227S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13134	ENGLISH	 227S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(W) Writing
13134	ENGLISH	 227S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	Seminar
13134	RUSSIAN	 282S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13134	RUSSIAN	 282S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(W) Writing
13134	RUSSIAN	 282S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	Seminar
13134	THEATRST	 282S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13134	THEATRST	 282S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(W) Writing
13134	THEATRST	 282S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	Seminar
13134	VMS	 321S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13134	VMS	 321S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	(W) Writing
13134	VMS	 321S	WRITING MOVIES: ADAPTATION	Theory and practice of the process of adaptation of serious literary works of fiction to screenplay or play form. Reading and analysis of literary works adapted as screenplays and plays. Project in writing an adaptation.	Seminar
13766	LINGUIST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
13766	LINGUIST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
13794	DANCE	422	PERFORMANCE: BALLET	The study of choreography and performance through participation in the mounting of a dance work from inception through rehearsal to performance. Separate enrollment in dance technique is encouraged. Consent of department required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13795	DANCE	432	PERFORMANCE: AFRICAN	The study of choreography and performance through participation in the mounting of a dance work from inception through rehearsal to performance. Separate enrollment in dance technique is encouraged. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13857	ENVIRON	102	INTRO TO ENVIRON SCI/POL	An introduction to the study of environmental sciences and policy through exploration of basic environmental principles in the life, physical, and social sciences. Emphasis on understanding how the atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere, and biosphere function, and how these spheres interact with human consumption, production, and technological patterns and processes. Field trips to a local site as well as the Duke University Marine Laboratory.	(NS) Natural Sciences
13857	ENVIRON	102	INTRO TO ENVIRON SCI/POL	An introduction to the study of environmental sciences and policy through exploration of basic environmental principles in the life, physical, and social sciences. Emphasis on understanding how the atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere, and biosphere function, and how these spheres interact with human consumption, production, and technological patterns and processes. Field trips to a local site as well as the Duke University Marine Laboratory.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
13899	BIOLOGY	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Continuation of Biology 293. Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to juniors and seniors only with consent of supervising instructor. Prerequisite: Biology 293 or Biology 379LA. May be repeated.	(R) Research
13899	BIOLOGY	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Continuation of Biology 293. Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to juniors and seniors only with consent of supervising instructor. Prerequisite: Biology 293 or Biology 379LA. May be repeated.	Independent Study
13907	ARTSVIS	206	DIGITAL IMAGING	Photoshop and Illustrator used to introduce single and serial images for print and web output. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13907	VMS	206	DIGITAL IMAGING	Photoshop and Illustrator used to introduce single and serial images for print and web output. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
13956	TURKISH	101	ELEMENTARY TURKISH	Remote synchronous course. Meetings held via Zoom. Introduce basic Turkish language forms and the daily culture in modern-day Turkey. Explore everyday life and culture in Turkish through media such as YouTube videos and songs. Attain the Novice High level according to ACTFL proficiency guidelines: the ability to exchange greetings in appropriate settings, give basic information about self, and identify familiar objects. No prior Turkish is required.	(FL) Foreign Language
13958	TURKISH	203	INTERMEDIATE TURKISH	Remote synchronous course. Meetings held via Zoom three times a week. Attain the Intermediate level according to ACTFL proficiency guidelines: ability to produce sentences in various past time frames, easily converse in daily routine and social situations, school, work, personal preferences, narrate a string of sentences and can be understood by native speakers. Prior language experience required (Either completing Turkish 102 or its equivalent. Otherwise, please see the Instructor for a placement test).	(FL) Foreign Language
14156	CINE	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14156	CINE	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(R) Research
14156	CINE	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(SS) Social Sciences
14156	CINE	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(W) Writing
14156	DOCST	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14156	DOCST	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(R) Research
14156	DOCST	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(SS) Social Sciences
14156	DOCST	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(W) Writing
14156	ETHICS	259	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14156	ETHICS	259	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(R) Research
14156	ETHICS	259	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(SS) Social Sciences
14156	ETHICS	259	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(W) Writing
14156	PJMS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14156	PJMS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(R) Research
14156	PJMS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(SS) Social Sciences
14156	PJMS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(W) Writing
14156	POLSCI	375	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14156	POLSCI	375	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(R) Research
14156	POLSCI	375	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(SS) Social Sciences
14156	POLSCI	375	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(W) Writing
14156	PUBPOL	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14156	PUBPOL	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(R) Research
14156	PUBPOL	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(SS) Social Sciences
14156	PUBPOL	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(W) Writing
14156	RIGHTS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14156	RIGHTS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(R) Research
14156	RIGHTS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(SS) Social Sciences
14156	RIGHTS	371	NEWS/MORAL BATTLEGROUND	Ethical inquiry into journalism and its effect on public discourse. Issues include accuracy, transparency, conflicts of interest and fairness. Topics include coverage of national security, government secrecy, plagiarism/fabrication, and trade-offs of anonymous sourcing.	(W) Writing
14187	ARTHIST	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
14187	ARTHIST	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
14188	ARTHIST	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or report. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
14189	ARTHIST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
14189	ARTHIST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
14190	PHIL	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing a significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to highly qualified students in the junior and senior year with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
14190	PHIL	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing a significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to highly qualified students in the junior and senior year with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
14201	PHYSICS	495	THESIS INDEPENDENT STUDY	Original research conducted under the supervision of a faculty member leading to a substantial written report that follows standard guidelines for the presentation of physics research. The report must be revised at least once in response to feedback from the instructor. Typically taken following Physics 493 or summer research experience with the instructor. Consent of instructor and DUS required.	(R) Research
14201	PHYSICS	495	THESIS INDEPENDENT STUDY	Original research conducted under the supervision of a faculty member leading to a substantial written report that follows standard guidelines for the presentation of physics research. The report must be revised at least once in response to feedback from the instructor. Typically taken following Physics 493 or summer research experience with the instructor. Consent of instructor and DUS required.	(W) Writing
14201	PHYSICS	495	THESIS INDEPENDENT STUDY	Original research conducted under the supervision of a faculty member leading to a substantial written report that follows standard guidelines for the presentation of physics research. The report must be revised at least once in response to feedback from the instructor. Typically taken following Physics 493 or summer research experience with the instructor. Consent of instructor and DUS required.	Independent Study
14202	ARTHIST	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or report. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
14203	ARTHIST	294	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Art History 293. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
14203	ARTHIST	294	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Art History 293. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
14204	ARTHIST	292	INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Art History 291. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
14205	ARTHIST	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Art History 493. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
14205	ARTHIST	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Art History 493. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
14206	ARTHIST	492	INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Art History 491. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
14229	EVANTH	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading, tutorial, or individual project in Evolutionary Anthropology, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or other approved product. Open only to qualified students, who, before being given permission to register, must submit to the faculty advisor a written proposal outlining the area of study and listing course goals and meeting schedule. The area of study must be connected to discipline of Evolutionary Anthropology. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
14238	CULANTH	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic product. With consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
14239	CULANTH	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. With consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
14239	CULANTH	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. With consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
14304	AMES	 308S	BILINGUALISM	Examination of bilingualism at the individual, interpersonal, and social levels from psycholinguistic, socio-linguistic, anthropological, and educational perspectives. Issues to include the relation between language and cognition, language development, language identity, socio-linguistic practices in multicultural settings, language maintenance, and language policy and planning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14304	AMES	 308S	BILINGUALISM	Examination of bilingualism at the individual, interpersonal, and social levels from psycholinguistic, socio-linguistic, anthropological, and educational perspectives. Issues to include the relation between language and cognition, language development, language identity, socio-linguistic practices in multicultural settings, language maintenance, and language policy and planning.	(SS) Social Sciences
14304	AMES	 308S	BILINGUALISM	Examination of bilingualism at the individual, interpersonal, and social levels from psycholinguistic, socio-linguistic, anthropological, and educational perspectives. Issues to include the relation between language and cognition, language development, language identity, socio-linguistic practices in multicultural settings, language maintenance, and language policy and planning.	Seminar
14304	LINGUIST	 308S	BILINGUALISM	Examination of bilingualism at the individual, interpersonal, and social levels from psycholinguistic, socio-linguistic, anthropological, and educational perspectives. Issues to include the relation between language and cognition, language development, language identity, socio-linguistic practices in multicultural settings, language maintenance, and language policy and planning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14304	LINGUIST	 308S	BILINGUALISM	Examination of bilingualism at the individual, interpersonal, and social levels from psycholinguistic, socio-linguistic, anthropological, and educational perspectives. Issues to include the relation between language and cognition, language development, language identity, socio-linguistic practices in multicultural settings, language maintenance, and language policy and planning.	(SS) Social Sciences
14304	LINGUIST	 308S	BILINGUALISM	Examination of bilingualism at the individual, interpersonal, and social levels from psycholinguistic, socio-linguistic, anthropological, and educational perspectives. Issues to include the relation between language and cognition, language development, language identity, socio-linguistic practices in multicultural settings, language maintenance, and language policy and planning.	Seminar
14324	SOCIOL	264	DEATH AND DYING	The biomedical, economic, social, and psychological issues surrounding death and dying in the twenty-first century in America. Religious and cultural perspectives both in the Judeo-Christian ethic and in other religious frameworks. Theories of dying from sociological and social psychological perspectives. Required participation in service-learning.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14324	SOCIOL	264	DEATH AND DYING	The biomedical, economic, social, and psychological issues surrounding death and dying in the twenty-first century in America. Religious and cultural perspectives both in the Judeo-Christian ethic and in other religious frameworks. Theories of dying from sociological and social psychological perspectives. Required participation in service-learning.	(SS) Social Sciences
14329	AMES	275	CHINESE PHILOSOPHY	The major schools of classical Chinese philosophy: Confucianism, Moism, and Taoism. Confucianism on the ideals of harmonious human life; Moism's charge that Confucianism encourages an unjustified partiality toward the family; Taoism's claim that no logically consistent set of doctrines can articulate the 'Truth.' Debates and mutual influences among these philosophies. Comparisons between Chinese and Western cultures with respect to philosophical issues and solutions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14329	AMES	275	CHINESE PHILOSOPHY	The major schools of classical Chinese philosophy: Confucianism, Moism, and Taoism. Confucianism on the ideals of harmonious human life; Moism's charge that Confucianism encourages an unjustified partiality toward the family; Taoism's claim that no logically consistent set of doctrines can articulate the 'Truth.' Debates and mutual influences among these philosophies. Comparisons between Chinese and Western cultures with respect to philosophical issues and solutions.	(CZ) Civilizations
14329	AMES	275	CHINESE PHILOSOPHY	The major schools of classical Chinese philosophy: Confucianism, Moism, and Taoism. Confucianism on the ideals of harmonious human life; Moism's charge that Confucianism encourages an unjustified partiality toward the family; Taoism's claim that no logically consistent set of doctrines can articulate the 'Truth.' Debates and mutual influences among these philosophies. Comparisons between Chinese and Western cultures with respect to philosophical issues and solutions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14329	PHIL	263	CHINESE PHILOSOPHY	The major schools of classical Chinese philosophy: Confucianism, Moism, and Taoism. Confucianism on the ideals of harmonious human life; Moism's charge that Confucianism encourages an unjustified partiality toward the family; Taoism's claim that no logically consistent set of doctrines can articulate the 'Truth.' Debates and mutual influences among these philosophies. Comparisons between Chinese and Western cultures with respect to philosophical issues and solutions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14329	PHIL	263	CHINESE PHILOSOPHY	The major schools of classical Chinese philosophy: Confucianism, Moism, and Taoism. Confucianism on the ideals of harmonious human life; Moism's charge that Confucianism encourages an unjustified partiality toward the family; Taoism's claim that no logically consistent set of doctrines can articulate the 'Truth.' Debates and mutual influences among these philosophies. Comparisons between Chinese and Western cultures with respect to philosophical issues and solutions.	(CZ) Civilizations
14329	PHIL	263	CHINESE PHILOSOPHY	The major schools of classical Chinese philosophy: Confucianism, Moism, and Taoism. Confucianism on the ideals of harmonious human life; Moism's charge that Confucianism encourages an unjustified partiality toward the family; Taoism's claim that no logically consistent set of doctrines can articulate the 'Truth.' Debates and mutual influences among these philosophies. Comparisons between Chinese and Western cultures with respect to philosophical issues and solutions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14341	CINE	 230S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14341	CINE	 230S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14341	CINE	 230S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(CZ) Civilizations
14341	CINE	 230S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(W) Writing
14341	CINE	 230S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	Seminar
14341	MUSIC	 238S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14341	MUSIC	 238S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14341	MUSIC	 238S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(CZ) Civilizations
14341	MUSIC	 238S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(W) Writing
14341	MUSIC	 238S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	Seminar
14341	VMS	 217S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14341	VMS	 217S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14341	VMS	 217S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(CZ) Civilizations
14341	VMS	 217S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	(W) Writing
14341	VMS	 217S	SOUND, MUSIC, & MOVING IMAGE	Introduction to film studies with emphasis on uses and functions of sound, film music, sound and other aural objects such as the voice, through a selected body of works. Topics include representations of sound, music and voice, the functions of pre-existing music and their relations with the moving image in cinema and television; gendered representations of music and voice in pop and rock music videos; Hollywood practices and non-Hollywood practices.	Seminar
14361	COMPSCI	 101L	INTRO TO COMPUTER SCIENCE	Introduction practices and principles of computer science and programming and their impact on and potential to change the world. Algorithmic, problem-solving, and programming techniques in domains such as art, data visualization, mathematics, natural and social sciences. Programming using high-level languages and design techniques emphasizing abstraction, encapsulation, and problem decomposition. Design, implementation, testing, and analysis of algorithms and programs. No previous programming experience required. Not open to students who have taken Computer Science 102, 116, Engineering 103 or Computer Science 201.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
14673	RUSSIAN	321	NEW RUSSIANS	Examination of fiction and film in the post-Soviet period. Topics include: crime and social breakdown in the 1990s and 2000s; transformations of classic character types (anti-hero, virgin-whore, swindler-rogue); religious and ethical quests; taboo-breaking themes. Works by authors Sorokin, Grishkovets, Pelevin, Petrushevskaya, Sadur, Shishkin, Minaev, Tolstaya, Akunin, Ulitskaya and filmmakers Bodrov, Rogozhkin, Bekmambetov, Khlebnikov/Popogrebsky, Balabanov, and Sokurov. Readings and class discussions in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14673	RUSSIAN	321	NEW RUSSIANS	Examination of fiction and film in the post-Soviet period. Topics include: crime and social breakdown in the 1990s and 2000s; transformations of classic character types (anti-hero, virgin-whore, swindler-rogue); religious and ethical quests; taboo-breaking themes. Works by authors Sorokin, Grishkovets, Pelevin, Petrushevskaya, Sadur, Shishkin, Minaev, Tolstaya, Akunin, Ulitskaya and filmmakers Bodrov, Rogozhkin, Bekmambetov, Khlebnikov/Popogrebsky, Balabanov, and Sokurov. Readings and class discussions in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14673	RUSSIAN	321	NEW RUSSIANS	Examination of fiction and film in the post-Soviet period. Topics include: crime and social breakdown in the 1990s and 2000s; transformations of classic character types (anti-hero, virgin-whore, swindler-rogue); religious and ethical quests; taboo-breaking themes. Works by authors Sorokin, Grishkovets, Pelevin, Petrushevskaya, Sadur, Shishkin, Minaev, Tolstaya, Akunin, Ulitskaya and filmmakers Bodrov, Rogozhkin, Bekmambetov, Khlebnikov/Popogrebsky, Balabanov, and Sokurov. Readings and class discussions in English.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14770	GSF	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	New concepts and themes in gender and feminist studies. Topics may vary each semester.	Seminar
14770	GSF	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	New concepts and themes in gender and feminist studies. Topics may vary each semester.	Topics Course
14776	LIT	495	HONORS THESIS I	First semester of a two-semester sequence, in which Literature majors begin the year-long honors program. No credit given for Literature 495 without completion of Literature 496. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14776	LIT	495	HONORS THESIS I	First semester of a two-semester sequence, in which Literature majors begin the year-long honors program. No credit given for Literature 495 without completion of Literature 496. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required.	(R) Research
14776	LIT	495	HONORS THESIS I	First semester of a two-semester sequence, in which Literature majors begin the year-long honors program. No credit given for Literature 495 without completion of Literature 496. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required.	(W) Writing
14776	LIT	495	HONORS THESIS I	First semester of a two-semester sequence, in which Literature majors begin the year-long honors program. No credit given for Literature 495 without completion of Literature 496. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required.	Independent Study
14777	LIT	496	HONORS THESIS II	Continuation of Literature 495 in which Literature majors finish the year-long honors program. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required. Prerequisite: Literature 495.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14777	LIT	496	HONORS THESIS II	Continuation of Literature 495 in which Literature majors finish the year-long honors program. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required. Prerequisite: Literature 495.	(R) Research
14777	LIT	496	HONORS THESIS II	Continuation of Literature 495 in which Literature majors finish the year-long honors program. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required. Prerequisite: Literature 495.	(W) Writing
14777	LIT	496	HONORS THESIS II	Continuation of Literature 495 in which Literature majors finish the year-long honors program. Does not count towards the ten Literature courses required for the major. Director of Undergraduate Studies consent required. Prerequisite: Literature 495.	Independent Study
14786	PHARM	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a pharmacology-related area under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of the study results. Open to juniors and seniors with consent of supervising instructor.	(R) Research
14786	PHARM	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a pharmacology-related area under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of the study results. Open to juniors and seniors with consent of supervising instructor.	Independent Study
14809	MMS	365	STRATEGIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT	Strategic financial issues confronting the firm. Basic problems of strategic direction for the firm with respect to external competitive environment and management of internal strategy processes. Tools and ideas to manage formulation and implementation of strategic choices for the firm. Study of firm's strategic position relative to rivals, the larger industry, and the customer. Prerequisite: Markets and Management Studies 85 and Economics 271 or Economics 373 or consent of instructor.	(SS) Social Sciences
14812	AAAS	 242S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14812	AAAS	 242S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(SS) Social Sciences
14812	AAAS	 242S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	Seminar
14812	AADS	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14812	AADS	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(SS) Social Sciences
14812	AADS	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	Seminar
14812	GSF	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14812	GSF	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(SS) Social Sciences
14812	GSF	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	Seminar
14812	SOCIOL	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14812	SOCIOL	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(SS) Social Sciences
14812	SOCIOL	 364S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	Seminar
14812	SXL	 264S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14812	SXL	 264S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	(SS) Social Sciences
14812	SXL	 264S	RACE, GENDER, AND SEXUALITY	Gender's relationship to race and sexuality explored through a variety of issues, including health, intimacy, family, the state, economic practices, transnational communities and identities, and social movement.	Seminar
14831	ECON	 201D	INTERMEDIATE MICROECONOMICS I	Preferences and technologies and their relation to demand, supply, and competitive equilibrium. The basic math behind constrained optimization. Income and substitution effects and their relation to demand and marginal willingness to pay. Cost functions and profit maximization. Policy and civil society approach to market failures from externalities, asymmetric information, and market power. Introduction to game theory and applications to market structures. The tension between efficiency and equity. Prerequisite: (Economics 101 or 101D) and either (Mathematics 105L and 106L) or (Mathematics 21, 111L, 112L, 121, 122, 122L, 202, 212, or a higher level math course).	(SS) Social Sciences
14832	ECON	 205D	INTERMEDIATE MICROECONOMICS II	Calculus-based generalization of the theory of demand and supply developed in Economics 201D. Individual behavior in environments of risk and uncertainty. Introduction to game theory and strategic interaction. Adverse selection, moral hazard, non-competitive market structures, externalities, public goods. Prerequisite: Economics 201D; Mathematics 202, 212, 222, or any higher-level mathematics course with Mathematics 212 as a prerequisite.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
14832	ECON	 205D	INTERMEDIATE MICROECONOMICS II	Calculus-based generalization of the theory of demand and supply developed in Economics 201D. Individual behavior in environments of risk and uncertainty. Introduction to game theory and strategic interaction. Adverse selection, moral hazard, non-competitive market structures, externalities, public goods. Prerequisite: Economics 201D; Mathematics 202, 212, 222, or any higher-level mathematics course with Mathematics 212 as a prerequisite.	(SS) Social Sciences
14833	ECON	 210D	INTERMEDIATE MACROECONOMICS	Intermediate level treatment of macroeconomic models, fiscal and monetary policy, inflation, unemployment, economic growth. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
14833	ECON	 210D	INTERMEDIATE MACROECONOMICS	Intermediate level treatment of macroeconomic models, fiscal and monetary policy, inflation, unemployment, economic growth. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
14833	ECON	 210D	INTERMEDIATE MACROECONOMICS	Intermediate level treatment of macroeconomic models, fiscal and monetary policy, inflation, unemployment, economic growth. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
14956	POLSCI	 175D	INTRO TO POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY	An intensive comparative examination of the nature and enduring problems of political philosophy through the confrontation, interpretation, and normative assessment of classic texts from the Greek polis to the present. Selected theorists and their arguments and beliefs within the Western political tradition concerning justice, the good life, freedom, community, power, authority, and others. Careful attention to the ways argument and rhetoric operate in texts of political philosophy, as well as diverse modes of interpretation.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
14956	POLSCI	 175D	INTRO TO POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY	An intensive comparative examination of the nature and enduring problems of political philosophy through the confrontation, interpretation, and normative assessment of classic texts from the Greek polis to the present. Selected theorists and their arguments and beliefs within the Western political tradition concerning justice, the good life, freedom, community, power, authority, and others. Careful attention to the ways argument and rhetoric operate in texts of political philosophy, as well as diverse modes of interpretation.	(SS) Social Sciences
14961	TURKISH	305	CONTEMP TURKISH COMP/READINGS	Advanced grammar and syntax with intense composition component. Analytical readings in the original. Prerequisite: Turkish 204 or permission of instructor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14961	TURKISH	305	CONTEMP TURKISH COMP/READINGS	Advanced grammar and syntax with intense composition component. Analytical readings in the original. Prerequisite: Turkish 204 or permission of instructor.	(FL) Foreign Language
14970	DOCST	101	TRADITIONS IN DOC STUDIES	Traditions of documentary work seen through an interdisciplinary perspective, with an emphasis on twentieth-century practice. Introduces students to a range of documentary idioms and voices, including the work of photographers, filmmakers, oral historians, folklorists, musicologists, radio documentarians, and writers. Stresses aesthetic, scholarly, and ethical considerations involved in representing other people and cultures.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14970	DOCST	101	TRADITIONS IN DOC STUDIES	Traditions of documentary work seen through an interdisciplinary perspective, with an emphasis on twentieth-century practice. Introduces students to a range of documentary idioms and voices, including the work of photographers, filmmakers, oral historians, folklorists, musicologists, radio documentarians, and writers. Stresses aesthetic, scholarly, and ethical considerations involved in representing other people and cultures.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14970	ICS	111	TRADITIONS IN DOC STUDIES	Traditions of documentary work seen through an interdisciplinary perspective, with an emphasis on twentieth-century practice. Introduces students to a range of documentary idioms and voices, including the work of photographers, filmmakers, oral historians, folklorists, musicologists, radio documentarians, and writers. Stresses aesthetic, scholarly, and ethical considerations involved in representing other people and cultures.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14970	ICS	111	TRADITIONS IN DOC STUDIES	Traditions of documentary work seen through an interdisciplinary perspective, with an emphasis on twentieth-century practice. Introduces students to a range of documentary idioms and voices, including the work of photographers, filmmakers, oral historians, folklorists, musicologists, radio documentarians, and writers. Stresses aesthetic, scholarly, and ethical considerations involved in representing other people and cultures.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14970	VMS	103	TRADITIONS IN DOC STUDIES	Traditions of documentary work seen through an interdisciplinary perspective, with an emphasis on twentieth-century practice. Introduces students to a range of documentary idioms and voices, including the work of photographers, filmmakers, oral historians, folklorists, musicologists, radio documentarians, and writers. Stresses aesthetic, scholarly, and ethical considerations involved in representing other people and cultures.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
14970	VMS	103	TRADITIONS IN DOC STUDIES	Traditions of documentary work seen through an interdisciplinary perspective, with an emphasis on twentieth-century practice. Introduces students to a range of documentary idioms and voices, including the work of photographers, filmmakers, oral historians, folklorists, musicologists, radio documentarians, and writers. Stresses aesthetic, scholarly, and ethical considerations involved in representing other people and cultures.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
14971	DOCST	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR	Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
14971	DOCST	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR	Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
15209	DOCST	 480S	CAPSTONE SEMINAR	Immersion in fieldwork-based inquiry and in-depth projects that serve as Certificate in Documentary Studies capstone experiences for students. Methods of documentary fieldwork, including participant observation, and modes of arts and humanities interpretation through a variety of mediums (including papers, film, photography exhibits, radio pieces, and performances). Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Documentary Studies 101 and four Documentary Studies electives.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
15209	DOCST	 480S	CAPSTONE SEMINAR	Immersion in fieldwork-based inquiry and in-depth projects that serve as Certificate in Documentary Studies capstone experiences for students. Methods of documentary fieldwork, including participant observation, and modes of arts and humanities interpretation through a variety of mediums (including papers, film, photography exhibits, radio pieces, and performances). Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Documentary Studies 101 and four Documentary Studies electives.	(R) Research
15209	DOCST	 480S	CAPSTONE SEMINAR	Immersion in fieldwork-based inquiry and in-depth projects that serve as Certificate in Documentary Studies capstone experiences for students. Methods of documentary fieldwork, including participant observation, and modes of arts and humanities interpretation through a variety of mediums (including papers, film, photography exhibits, radio pieces, and performances). Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Documentary Studies 101 and four Documentary Studies electives.	Seminar
15222	BIOLOGY	418	INTRODUCTION TO BIOPHYSICS	How theory and experimental techniques from physics can be used to analyze and understand biological structure and function, including chemical, mechanical, electrical, collective, and information-processing aspects. Prerequisite: Biology 201L and knowledge of statistical physics by taking either Physics 363 or Chemistry 311.	(NS) Natural Sciences
15222	BIOLOGY	418	INTRODUCTION TO BIOPHYSICS	How theory and experimental techniques from physics can be used to analyze and understand biological structure and function, including chemical, mechanical, electrical, collective, and information-processing aspects. Prerequisite: Biology 201L and knowledge of statistical physics by taking either Physics 363 or Chemistry 311.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
15222	PHYSICS	414	INTRODUCTION TO BIOPHYSICS	How theory and experimental techniques from physics can be used to analyze and understand biological structure and function, including chemical, mechanical, electrical, collective, and information-processing aspects. Prerequisite: Biology 201L and knowledge of statistical physics by taking either Physics 363 or Chemistry 311.	(NS) Natural Sciences
15222	PHYSICS	414	INTRODUCTION TO BIOPHYSICS	How theory and experimental techniques from physics can be used to analyze and understand biological structure and function, including chemical, mechanical, electrical, collective, and information-processing aspects. Prerequisite: Biology 201L and knowledge of statistical physics by taking either Physics 363 or Chemistry 311.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
15262	NEUROBIO	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
15262	NEUROBIO	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
15263	IMMUNOL	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
15263	IMMUNOL	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
15264	IMMUNOL	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
15264	IMMUNOL	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research and reading of the primary literature in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
15265	BIOLOGY	 412S	SENSORY SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION	Recent progress in sensory signal transduction mediated by calcium channels and receptors.  Topics include history and techniques in the study of ion channels, such as electrophysiology, calcium imaging, and cell and molecular biology; cell surface perception for external signals, including light receptors, olfactory receptors, taste receptors, hot and cold receptors, and mechanical receptors; heart and brain pacemakers; sensory channel receptor-related human diseases; and plan sensory signaling network.	(NS) Natural Sciences
15265	BIOLOGY	 412S	SENSORY SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION	Recent progress in sensory signal transduction mediated by calcium channels and receptors.  Topics include history and techniques in the study of ion channels, such as electrophysiology, calcium imaging, and cell and molecular biology; cell surface perception for external signals, including light receptors, olfactory receptors, taste receptors, hot and cold receptors, and mechanical receptors; heart and brain pacemakers; sensory channel receptor-related human diseases; and plan sensory signaling network.	(R) Research
15265	BIOLOGY	 412S	SENSORY SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION	Recent progress in sensory signal transduction mediated by calcium channels and receptors.  Topics include history and techniques in the study of ion channels, such as electrophysiology, calcium imaging, and cell and molecular biology; cell surface perception for external signals, including light receptors, olfactory receptors, taste receptors, hot and cold receptors, and mechanical receptors; heart and brain pacemakers; sensory channel receptor-related human diseases; and plan sensory signaling network.	Seminar
15269	COMPSCI	390	COMPUTER SCIENCE (TOP)	Topics from various areas of computer science, changing each year. Includes research intensive work exposing the student to computer science research methodology and resulting in a major document or project. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201.	Topics Course
15334	HLTHPOL	165	INTRO TO US HEALTH CARE SYSTM	Overview of key health policy issues in the United States. Topics include: (1) sources of morbidity and mortality; (2) access to health care; (3) financing of health care including an overview of how health insurance works, Medicare and Medicaid and why there are uninsured persons and to what effect; (4) health care quality; (5) end-of-life issues and care in advanced stage illness; (6) the role of non-profit versus for-profit ownership of health care facilities and to what effect; (8) long term care and care-giving issues; and (9) the impact of social phenomenon such as income inequality, social class and culture on health care.	(SS) Social Sciences
15334	PUBPOL	165	INTRO TO US HEALTH CARE SYSTM	Overview of key health policy issues in the United States. Topics include: (1) sources of morbidity and mortality; (2) access to health care; (3) financing of health care including an overview of how health insurance works, Medicare and Medicaid and why there are uninsured persons and to what effect; (4) health care quality; (5) end-of-life issues and care in advanced stage illness; (6) the role of non-profit versus for-profit ownership of health care facilities and to what effect; (8) long term care and care-giving issues; and (9) the impact of social phenomenon such as income inequality, social class and culture on health care.	(SS) Social Sciences
15334	SCISOC	165	INTRO TO US HEALTH CARE SYSTM	Overview of key health policy issues in the United States. Topics include: (1) sources of morbidity and mortality; (2) access to health care; (3) financing of health care including an overview of how health insurance works, Medicare and Medicaid and why there are uninsured persons and to what effect; (4) health care quality; (5) end-of-life issues and care in advanced stage illness; (6) the role of non-profit versus for-profit ownership of health care facilities and to what effect; (8) long term care and care-giving issues; and (9) the impact of social phenomenon such as income inequality, social class and culture on health care.	(SS) Social Sciences
15348	PUBPOL	120	INTERNSHIP	Field work in a chosen policy area with pre-approval of the Internship Director. Must submit approval form, five-page memo, and self-evaluation form two weeks after internship ends. Prerequisites: Public Policy 155D, Statistical Science 199L/equivalent, and PUBPOL 301 or PUBPOL 302/equivalent, and approval from Internship Director. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
15472	AMES	186	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
15472	AMES	186	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15472	AMES	186	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
15472	AMES	186	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15472	AMES	186	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(R) Research
15472	HISTORY	212	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
15472	HISTORY	212	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15472	HISTORY	212	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
15472	HISTORY	212	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15472	HISTORY	212	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(R) Research
15472	RELIGION	228	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
15472	RELIGION	228	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15472	RELIGION	228	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
15472	RELIGION	228	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15472	RELIGION	228	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(R) Research
15472	SES	287	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
15472	SES	287	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15472	SES	287	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
15472	SES	287	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15472	SES	287	TURKS AND EUROPE	Readings in cultural history and literature to examine transformations in Turkish identity from the Ottoman era to EU accession. Discussion of the 'gazi thesis', the 'sultanate of women', religious tolerance (millets), conversion, modernity and nationalism. Secondary topics include Sufism, Islam, gender, and historiography. Interdisciplinary focus. Taught in English.	(R) Research
15479	STA	 210L	REGRESSION ANALYSIS	Extensive study of regression modeling. Multiple regression, weighted least squares, logistic regression, log-linear models, analysis of variance, model diagnostics, and selection. Emphasis on applications. Examples are drawn from a variety of fields. Prerequisite: 100-level STA course or STA 230, 231, or 240L. Interested students with different backgrounds should discuss and seek instructor consent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
15479	STA	 210L	REGRESSION ANALYSIS	Extensive study of regression modeling. Multiple regression, weighted least squares, logistic regression, log-linear models, analysis of variance, model diagnostics, and selection. Emphasis on applications. Examples are drawn from a variety of fields. Prerequisite: 100-level STA course or STA 230, 231, or 240L. Interested students with different backgrounds should discuss and seek instructor consent.	(R) Research
15504	ECON	 390S	SELECTED TOPICS IN ECON (TOP)	Topics vary by semester. Prerequisite: Economics 201D; check individual semester offerings for additional prerequisites. Instructor permission usually an option.	Seminar
15504	ECON	 390S	SELECTED TOPICS IN ECON (TOP)	Topics vary by semester. Prerequisite: Economics 201D; check individual semester offerings for additional prerequisites. Instructor permission usually an option.	Topics Course
15570	PUBPOL	 303D	MICROECONOMIC POLICY TOOLS	Introduction and application of microeconomic tools as a framework for public policy. Topics include models of economic actors' (e.g., consumers', workers', firms') decision-making under constraints and their strategic interactions, and supply and demand of goods and services in different market environments. Policy applications include price and labor market discrimination, distribution of income and wealth, promotion of innovation, taxation in various contexts, and government subsidization of goods and services. A key theme is understanding efficiency and distribution of market allocation, who benefits and who doesn't, and how policy can intervene.	(SS) Social Sciences
15627	CHINESE	 407S	ISSUES IN CHINESE LANG/SOC I	Materials from public media used to analyze diverse social phenomena and cultural issues in contemporary China. Major focus on developing literary reading and writing skills along with learning methods of writing academic Chinese essays on a wide range of complex topics. Topics include popular culture, food, marriage outlooks, Cultural Revolution, Confucianism, and social issues after the economic reform in China. Analysis of cultural and literary texts from variety of media and genres providing a basis for practice in discussion and writing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
15627	CHINESE	 407S	ISSUES IN CHINESE LANG/SOC I	Materials from public media used to analyze diverse social phenomena and cultural issues in contemporary China. Major focus on developing literary reading and writing skills along with learning methods of writing academic Chinese essays on a wide range of complex topics. Topics include popular culture, food, marriage outlooks, Cultural Revolution, Confucianism, and social issues after the economic reform in China. Analysis of cultural and literary texts from variety of media and genres providing a basis for practice in discussion and writing.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15627	CHINESE	 407S	ISSUES IN CHINESE LANG/SOC I	Materials from public media used to analyze diverse social phenomena and cultural issues in contemporary China. Major focus on developing literary reading and writing skills along with learning methods of writing academic Chinese essays on a wide range of complex topics. Topics include popular culture, food, marriage outlooks, Cultural Revolution, Confucianism, and social issues after the economic reform in China. Analysis of cultural and literary texts from variety of media and genres providing a basis for practice in discussion and writing.	(CZ) Civilizations
15627	CHINESE	 407S	ISSUES IN CHINESE LANG/SOC I	Materials from public media used to analyze diverse social phenomena and cultural issues in contemporary China. Major focus on developing literary reading and writing skills along with learning methods of writing academic Chinese essays on a wide range of complex topics. Topics include popular culture, food, marriage outlooks, Cultural Revolution, Confucianism, and social issues after the economic reform in China. Analysis of cultural and literary texts from variety of media and genres providing a basis for practice in discussion and writing.	(FL) Foreign Language
15627	CHINESE	 407S	ISSUES IN CHINESE LANG/SOC I	Materials from public media used to analyze diverse social phenomena and cultural issues in contemporary China. Major focus on developing literary reading and writing skills along with learning methods of writing academic Chinese essays on a wide range of complex topics. Topics include popular culture, food, marriage outlooks, Cultural Revolution, Confucianism, and social issues after the economic reform in China. Analysis of cultural and literary texts from variety of media and genres providing a basis for practice in discussion and writing.	Seminar
15640	ITALIAN	335	MAJOR ITALIAN AUTHORS	Textual studies of the most important authors of the Italian literary tradition. Authors may vary. At times the course devoted to single author: Dante, Boccaccio, Pirandello; or, two or three authors studies together in the context of the culture of their time or of their influence on subsequent centuries or authors: Petrarch and Petrarchist phenomenon of the sixteenth century, Morante and the historical novel, Machiavelli and Vico. Not open to students who have taken this course as Italian 165S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
15640	ITALIAN	335	MAJOR ITALIAN AUTHORS	Textual studies of the most important authors of the Italian literary tradition. Authors may vary. At times the course devoted to single author: Dante, Boccaccio, Pirandello; or, two or three authors studies together in the context of the culture of their time or of their influence on subsequent centuries or authors: Petrarch and Petrarchist phenomenon of the sixteenth century, Morante and the historical novel, Machiavelli and Vico. Not open to students who have taken this course as Italian 165S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15640	ITALIAN	335	MAJOR ITALIAN AUTHORS	Textual studies of the most important authors of the Italian literary tradition. Authors may vary. At times the course devoted to single author: Dante, Boccaccio, Pirandello; or, two or three authors studies together in the context of the culture of their time or of their influence on subsequent centuries or authors: Petrarch and Petrarchist phenomenon of the sixteenth century, Morante and the historical novel, Machiavelli and Vico. Not open to students who have taken this course as Italian 165S.	(CZ) Civilizations
15640	ITALIAN	335	MAJOR ITALIAN AUTHORS	Textual studies of the most important authors of the Italian literary tradition. Authors may vary. At times the course devoted to single author: Dante, Boccaccio, Pirandello; or, two or three authors studies together in the context of the culture of their time or of their influence on subsequent centuries or authors: Petrarch and Petrarchist phenomenon of the sixteenth century, Morante and the historical novel, Machiavelli and Vico. Not open to students who have taken this course as Italian 165S.	(FL) Foreign Language
15643	PJMS	410	POLICY JOURNALISM/MEDIA ST	Capstone course for Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate. Course taken after student completes media internship. Designed to integrate student's practical experience with conceptual and theoretical classroom work. Students meet in formal course setting to discuss what they have learned, present examples of the work they have accomplished, and discuss relevant research, culminating in a final project. Course requires a class presentation about the student's internship and a final project that integrates the internship experience with course content. Open to Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate students only. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
15643	PJMS	410	POLICY JOURNALISM/MEDIA ST	Capstone course for Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate. Course taken after student completes media internship. Designed to integrate student's practical experience with conceptual and theoretical classroom work. Students meet in formal course setting to discuss what they have learned, present examples of the work they have accomplished, and discuss relevant research, culminating in a final project. Course requires a class presentation about the student's internship and a final project that integrates the internship experience with course content. Open to Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate students only. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
15643	PUBPOL	410	POLICY JOURNALISM/MEDIA ST	Capstone course for Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate. Course taken after student completes media internship. Designed to integrate student's practical experience with conceptual and theoretical classroom work. Students meet in formal course setting to discuss what they have learned, present examples of the work they have accomplished, and discuss relevant research, culminating in a final project. Course requires a class presentation about the student's internship and a final project that integrates the internship experience with course content. Open to Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate students only. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
15643	PUBPOL	410	POLICY JOURNALISM/MEDIA ST	Capstone course for Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate. Course taken after student completes media internship. Designed to integrate student's practical experience with conceptual and theoretical classroom work. Students meet in formal course setting to discuss what they have learned, present examples of the work they have accomplished, and discuss relevant research, culminating in a final project. Course requires a class presentation about the student's internship and a final project that integrates the internship experience with course content. Open to Policy Journalism and Media Studies certificate students only. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
15731	ARTSVIS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN VISUAL ARTS	Subject varies from year to year.	Seminar
15731	ARTSVIS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN VISUAL ARTS	Subject varies from year to year.	Topics Course
15743	CHEM	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic.  Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
15743	CHEM	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic.  Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
15745	CULANTH	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15745	CULANTH	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(R) Research
15745	CULANTH	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(SS) Social Sciences
15745	CULANTH	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(W) Writing
15745	I&E	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15745	I&E	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(R) Research
15745	I&E	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(SS) Social Sciences
15745	I&E	302	FIELDWORK METHODS	Anthropology as a discipline (a field of study) and the site where anthropologists work: the field. Combines theories of anthropological fieldwork methods with practice, including participation, observation, and interviews. Students undertake original research in a local fieldsite of their choice and produce their own mini-ethnography. This requirement may also be satisfied by taking Cultural Anthropology 290A Duke in Ghana Anthropological Field Research.	(W) Writing
15755	EDUC	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15755	EDUC	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15755	EDUC	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(SS) Social Sciences
15755	EDUC	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(W) Writing
15755	EDUC	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	Seminar
15755	PUBPOL	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15755	PUBPOL	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15755	PUBPOL	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(SS) Social Sciences
15755	PUBPOL	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	(W) Writing
15755	PUBPOL	 243S	CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND SOCIETY	The processes by which children are educated in the United States. Ways children acquire through schooling social skills, moral values, and a sense of their role in society. Evaluation of the appropriateness of these goals for schooling, how schooling shapes children's development, and how the education policies that sanction these processes are formed. Application of theory and research for solving complex societal problems that confront children, schools, and communities. Required participation in service-learning.	Seminar
15773	EDUC	 290T	FRESHMAN-SOPH  TUTORIALS (TOP)	Small group discussions of significant books, authors, and ideas in education.  May be repeated.  Consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies required.	Topics Course
15773	EDUC	 290T	FRESHMAN-SOPH  TUTORIALS (TOP)	Small group discussions of significant books, authors, and ideas in education.  May be repeated.  Consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies required.	Tutorial
15778	CULANTH	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15778	CULANTH	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
15778	GLHLTH	326	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15778	GLHLTH	326	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
15778	HLTHPOL	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15778	HLTHPOL	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
15778	LSGS	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15778	LSGS	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
15778	SPANISH	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
15778	SPANISH	306	HEALTH, CULTURE, LATINO COMMUN	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. Projects include presentations, writing, research, and conversations with local and global contacts. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
15779	MATH	353	ORD AND PRTL DIFF EQUATIONS	First and second order ordinary differential equations with applications, Laplace transforms, series solutions and qualitative behavior, Fourier series, partial differential equations, boundary value problems, Sturm-Liouville theory. Intended primarily for engineering and science students. Prerequisite: (Mathematics 202, 202D, 212, 219, or 222) and (Mathematics 216, 218-1, 218-2, or 221). Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 356.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
15782	PHYSICS	 142L9D	GENERAL PHYSICS II (DISC)	Discussion components for Physics 142L.	Course has a lecture
15837	ECON	319	PHILOSOPHY/METHOD OF ECONOMICS	Introduction to conceptual and methodological issues raised in modern economics. Topics may include choice, rationality and irrationality, realism, models, the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics, prediction and explanation, value judgments and policymaking, and causality. Case studies of applications to economic problems. Prerequisites: One course in economics or consent of instructor.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15837	ECON	319	PHILOSOPHY/METHOD OF ECONOMICS	Introduction to conceptual and methodological issues raised in modern economics. Topics may include choice, rationality and irrationality, realism, models, the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics, prediction and explanation, value judgments and policymaking, and causality. Case studies of applications to economic problems. Prerequisites: One course in economics or consent of instructor.	(SS) Social Sciences
15837	ECON	319	PHILOSOPHY/METHOD OF ECONOMICS	Introduction to conceptual and methodological issues raised in modern economics. Topics may include choice, rationality and irrationality, realism, models, the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics, prediction and explanation, value judgments and policymaking, and causality. Case studies of applications to economic problems. Prerequisites: One course in economics or consent of instructor.	(W) Writing
15837	PHIL	345	PHILOSOPHY/METHOD OF ECONOMICS	Introduction to conceptual and methodological issues raised in modern economics. Topics may include choice, rationality and irrationality, realism, models, the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics, prediction and explanation, value judgments and policymaking, and causality. Case studies of applications to economic problems. Prerequisites: One course in economics or consent of instructor.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
15837	PHIL	345	PHILOSOPHY/METHOD OF ECONOMICS	Introduction to conceptual and methodological issues raised in modern economics. Topics may include choice, rationality and irrationality, realism, models, the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics, prediction and explanation, value judgments and policymaking, and causality. Case studies of applications to economic problems. Prerequisites: One course in economics or consent of instructor.	(SS) Social Sciences
15837	PHIL	345	PHILOSOPHY/METHOD OF ECONOMICS	Introduction to conceptual and methodological issues raised in modern economics. Topics may include choice, rationality and irrationality, realism, models, the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics, prediction and explanation, value judgments and policymaking, and causality. Case studies of applications to economic problems. Prerequisites: One course in economics or consent of instructor.	(W) Writing
15847	COMPSCI	230	DISCRETE MATH FOR COMPSCI	Mathematical notations, logic, and proof; linear and matrix algebra; graphs, digraphs, trees, representations, and algorithms; counting, permutations, combinations, discrete probability, Markov models; advanced topics from algebraic structures, geometric structures, combinatorial optimization, number theory. Pre/corequisite: Computer Science 201.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
16036	ECS	202	ATMOSPHERE AND OCEAN DYNAMICS	Introduction to the dynamics of ocean and atmospheric circulations, and their role in the global climate system. Prerequisite: Mathematics 21 and 122, Physics 141L or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
16036	ECS	202	ATMOSPHERE AND OCEAN DYNAMICS	Introduction to the dynamics of ocean and atmospheric circulations, and their role in the global climate system. Prerequisite: Mathematics 21 and 122, Physics 141L or consent of instructor.	(R) Research
16036	EOS	202	ATMOSPHERE AND OCEAN DYNAMICS	Introduction to the dynamics of ocean and atmospheric circulations, and their role in the global climate system. Prerequisite: Mathematics 21 and 122, Physics 141L or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
16036	EOS	202	ATMOSPHERE AND OCEAN DYNAMICS	Introduction to the dynamics of ocean and atmospheric circulations, and their role in the global climate system. Prerequisite: Mathematics 21 and 122, Physics 141L or consent of instructor.	(R) Research
16051	BIOLOGY	 341L	PLANT COMMUNITIES	Overview of plant communities in the mountains, piedmont, and coastal plain of North Carolina, primarily through field trips. The dominant native plants of each community; the biology and identification of important invasive species. Required weekend field trip to the mountains, and several weekend day trips.	(NS) Natural Sciences
16068	PHYSICS	 152L	INTRO ELECTRIC, MAGNET, OPTICS	Intended principally for students in engineering and the physical sciences. Topics include: electric charge, electric fields, Gauss's Law, potential, capacitance, electrical current, resistance, circuit concepts, magnetic fields, magnetic and electric forces, Ampere's Law, magnetic induction, Faraday's Law, inductance, Maxwell's Equations, electromagnetic waves, elementary geometric optics, wave interference, and diffraction. Prerequisites: Physics 151L and Mathematics 122 or equivalents.	(NS) Natural Sciences
16068	PHYSICS	 152L	INTRO ELECTRIC, MAGNET, OPTICS	Intended principally for students in engineering and the physical sciences. Topics include: electric charge, electric fields, Gauss's Law, potential, capacitance, electrical current, resistance, circuit concepts, magnetic fields, magnetic and electric forces, Ampere's Law, magnetic induction, Faraday's Law, inductance, Maxwell's Equations, electromagnetic waves, elementary geometric optics, wave interference, and diffraction. Prerequisites: Physics 151L and Mathematics 122 or equivalents.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
16068	PHYSICS	 152L	INTRO ELECTRIC, MAGNET, OPTICS	Intended principally for students in engineering and the physical sciences. Topics include: electric charge, electric fields, Gauss's Law, potential, capacitance, electrical current, resistance, circuit concepts, magnetic fields, magnetic and electric forces, Ampere's Law, magnetic induction, Faraday's Law, inductance, Maxwell's Equations, electromagnetic waves, elementary geometric optics, wave interference, and diffraction. Prerequisites: Physics 151L and Mathematics 122 or equivalents.	Course has lab and discussion
16076	HISTORY	277	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16076	HISTORY	277	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16076	HISTORY	277	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(CZ) Civilizations
16076	HISTORY	277	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16076	RUSSIAN	325	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16076	RUSSIAN	325	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16076	RUSSIAN	325	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(CZ) Civilizations
16076	RUSSIAN	325	TOLSTOY AND RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE	Historical approach to Tolstoy's depictions of major societal and ethical issues (e.g., war, peace, marriage, death, religion, relationships).  Culture of salons, print culture, censorship, and changing political climate.  Central questions on the relationship of fiction and history: uses of fiction for understanding history and dangers of such an approach.  Readings include selected fiction of Tolstoy, excerpts from journals and letters, and critical and historical accounts of nineteenth-century Russia.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16077	DOCST	 227S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16077	DOCST	 227S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	(SS) Social Sciences
16077	DOCST	 227S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	Seminar
16077	SOCIOL	 352S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16077	SOCIOL	 352S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	(SS) Social Sciences
16077	SOCIOL	 352S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	Seminar
16077	VMS	 218S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16077	VMS	 218S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	(SS) Social Sciences
16077	VMS	 218S	SOCIOLOGY THRU PHOTOGRAPHY	Documentary photography used as a tool to see the world through a sociological lens. Photographs and the social construction of reality; generic components of social organization (codes of conduct, mechanisms of social control); power relations and social inequalities; and social identities (how they're formed in relation to structures, experiences, history and culture).	Seminar
16078	DOCST	 110S	INTRODUCTION TO ORAL HISTORY	Introductory oral history fieldwork seminar. Oral history theory and methodology, including debates within the discipline. Components and problems of oral history interviewing as well as different kinds of oral history writing.	(CZ) Civilizations
16078	DOCST	 110S	INTRODUCTION TO ORAL HISTORY	Introductory oral history fieldwork seminar. Oral history theory and methodology, including debates within the discipline. Components and problems of oral history interviewing as well as different kinds of oral history writing.	(R) Research
16078	DOCST	 110S	INTRODUCTION TO ORAL HISTORY	Introductory oral history fieldwork seminar. Oral history theory and methodology, including debates within the discipline. Components and problems of oral history interviewing as well as different kinds of oral history writing.	Seminar
16078	HISTORY	 126S	INTRODUCTION TO ORAL HISTORY	Introductory oral history fieldwork seminar. Oral history theory and methodology, including debates within the discipline. Components and problems of oral history interviewing as well as different kinds of oral history writing.	(CZ) Civilizations
16078	HISTORY	 126S	INTRODUCTION TO ORAL HISTORY	Introductory oral history fieldwork seminar. Oral history theory and methodology, including debates within the discipline. Components and problems of oral history interviewing as well as different kinds of oral history writing.	(R) Research
16078	HISTORY	 126S	INTRODUCTION TO ORAL HISTORY	Introductory oral history fieldwork seminar. Oral history theory and methodology, including debates within the discipline. Components and problems of oral history interviewing as well as different kinds of oral history writing.	Seminar
16079	ARTSVIS	 204S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16079	ARTSVIS	 204S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	Seminar
16079	DOCST	 206S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16079	DOCST	 206S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	Seminar
16079	PUBPOL	 377S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16079	PUBPOL	 377S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	Seminar
16079	VMS	 204S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16079	VMS	 204S	MEDICINE AND DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	The intersection of healthcare and documentary photography. Explore work of established photographers engaged with healthcare topics. Produce semester-long documentary photography project and 5-10 page documentary essay on healthcare related topic. Students must have or quickly develop proficiency in the use of a digital SLR camera and Adobe Lightroom. Course materials include photographs, articles, and books. Class sessions combine critique of student work, discussion of course materials, and discussion of ethical questions involved in documentary representation of healthcare-related topics.	Seminar
16088	SOCIOL	 495S	SOCIOLOGY HONORS SEMINAR 1	Honors seminar for senior sociology major. Intensive research experience including topic selection, research design, data collection and analysis resulting in substantial, original paper. Research guidance and support provided by instructor and faculty advisor. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
16088	SOCIOL	 495S	SOCIOLOGY HONORS SEMINAR 1	Honors seminar for senior sociology major. Intensive research experience including topic selection, research design, data collection and analysis resulting in substantial, original paper. Research guidance and support provided by instructor and faculty advisor. Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
16088	SOCIOL	 495S	SOCIOLOGY HONORS SEMINAR 1	Honors seminar for senior sociology major. Intensive research experience including topic selection, research design, data collection and analysis resulting in substantial, original paper. Research guidance and support provided by instructor and faculty advisor. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
16099	SOCIOL	291	INDEPENDNT STUDY FOR NONMAJORS	Individual research and reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified juniors and seniors. Consent of instructor and Director of Markets and Management Studies. Does not count toward the Sociology major.	Independent Study
16235	AAAS	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	See African & African American Studies 391. Consent of both instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
16404	HISTORY	362	U S POLITICAL HST 1900-PRESENT	U.S. political history from 1900 to the present.  Topics include the emergence, evolution, and decline of a 'liberal' coalition; the creation of a 'conservative' coalition; the development of a powerful federal state and its social and political results; the role of money in politics; the transformation of voting rights and voter participation; reform and radical movements and their relationship to party politics and the federal government.	(CZ) Civilizations
16404	HISTORY	362	U S POLITICAL HST 1900-PRESENT	U.S. political history from 1900 to the present.  Topics include the emergence, evolution, and decline of a 'liberal' coalition; the creation of a 'conservative' coalition; the development of a powerful federal state and its social and political results; the role of money in politics; the transformation of voting rights and voter participation; reform and radical movements and their relationship to party politics and the federal government.	(SS) Social Sciences
16410	AMES	171	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16410	AMES	171	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16410	AMES	171	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CZ) Civilizations
16410	AMES	171	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16410	CINE	256	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16410	CINE	256	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16410	CINE	256	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CZ) Civilizations
16410	CINE	256	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16410	CULANTH	255	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16410	CULANTH	255	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16410	CULANTH	255	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CZ) Civilizations
16410	CULANTH	255	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16410	LIT	212	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16410	LIT	212	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16410	LIT	212	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CZ) Civilizations
16410	LIT	212	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16410	VMS	234	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16410	VMS	234	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16410	VMS	234	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(CZ) Civilizations
16410	VMS	234	WORLD OF KOREAN CINEMA	The world of Korean cinema, broadly defined in terms of national, generic, theoretical boundaries, beyond conventional auteur, genre, one-way influence, and national cinema theories. Cinematic texts examined in local, regional, and global contexts and intersections, in conversation with global theories and histories of cinema, visual cultures, and other representational forms. Variable topics informed theoretically and politically by discourses on gender/sexuality, race/ethnicity, global flows of people and cultures, popular and 'high' culture crossovers, transnational co-productions, remakes, translations and retellings. No knowledge of Korean language/ culture presumed.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16428	DOCST	 135S	INTRO TO AUDIO DOCUMENTARY	Recording techniques and audio mixing on digital editing software for the production of audio (radio) documentaries.  Various approaches to audio documentary work, from the journalistic to the personal; use of fieldwork to explore cultural differences.  Stories told through audio, using National Public Radio-style form, focusing on a particular social concern such as war and peace, death and dying, civil rights.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16428	DOCST	 135S	INTRO TO AUDIO DOCUMENTARY	Recording techniques and audio mixing on digital editing software for the production of audio (radio) documentaries.  Various approaches to audio documentary work, from the journalistic to the personal; use of fieldwork to explore cultural differences.  Stories told through audio, using National Public Radio-style form, focusing on a particular social concern such as war and peace, death and dying, civil rights.	(R) Research
16428	DOCST	 135S	INTRO TO AUDIO DOCUMENTARY	Recording techniques and audio mixing on digital editing software for the production of audio (radio) documentaries.  Various approaches to audio documentary work, from the journalistic to the personal; use of fieldwork to explore cultural differences.  Stories told through audio, using National Public Radio-style form, focusing on a particular social concern such as war and peace, death and dying, civil rights.	Seminar
16428	PJMS	 135S	INTRO TO AUDIO DOCUMENTARY	Recording techniques and audio mixing on digital editing software for the production of audio (radio) documentaries.  Various approaches to audio documentary work, from the journalistic to the personal; use of fieldwork to explore cultural differences.  Stories told through audio, using National Public Radio-style form, focusing on a particular social concern such as war and peace, death and dying, civil rights.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16428	PJMS	 135S	INTRO TO AUDIO DOCUMENTARY	Recording techniques and audio mixing on digital editing software for the production of audio (radio) documentaries.  Various approaches to audio documentary work, from the journalistic to the personal; use of fieldwork to explore cultural differences.  Stories told through audio, using National Public Radio-style form, focusing on a particular social concern such as war and peace, death and dying, civil rights.	(R) Research
16428	PJMS	 135S	INTRO TO AUDIO DOCUMENTARY	Recording techniques and audio mixing on digital editing software for the production of audio (radio) documentaries.  Various approaches to audio documentary work, from the journalistic to the personal; use of fieldwork to explore cultural differences.  Stories told through audio, using National Public Radio-style form, focusing on a particular social concern such as war and peace, death and dying, civil rights.	Seminar
16439	ENGLISH	 490S	SPECIAL TOPICS LANG/LIT	Topics may change each semester. Area requirements (Area I, II, III) will be determined by the Director of Undergraduate Studies.	Seminar
16439	ENGLISH	 490S	SPECIAL TOPICS LANG/LIT	Topics may change each semester. Area requirements (Area I, II, III) will be determined by the Director of Undergraduate Studies.	Topics Course
16461	ENVIRON	 390S	SP TOP ENVIRON SCI/POL	Same as Environment 390, taught as seminar.	Seminar
16461	ENVIRON	 390S	SP TOP ENVIRON SCI/POL	Same as Environment 390, taught as seminar.	Topics Course
16582	CINE	254	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16582	CINE	254	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16582	ITALIAN	380	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16582	ITALIAN	380	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16582	LIT	215	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16582	LIT	215	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16582	VMS	308	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16582	VMS	308	ITALIAN CINEMA	Introduction course to Italian cinema including silent films, Neorealism, fascist productions, Commedia all'italiana and experimentalism. Taught in English, Italian majors and minors should inquire with the professor about the possibility of concurrently enrolling in a tutorial for credit towards the language requirement for the major or minor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16613	GSF	361	MONEY, SEX, POWER	Feminist research on gender dynamics in markets, economies, and capitalism. Includes empirical studies (e.g., historical, cross-cultural, and sociological research) and theoretical approaches to political-economic critique. Covered topics may include the gender, racial and transnational divisions of labor, the relation between work and family, waged household labor, sex work, sweatshop labor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16613	GSF	361	MONEY, SEX, POWER	Feminist research on gender dynamics in markets, economies, and capitalism. Includes empirical studies (e.g., historical, cross-cultural, and sociological research) and theoretical approaches to political-economic critique. Covered topics may include the gender, racial and transnational divisions of labor, the relation between work and family, waged household labor, sex work, sweatshop labor.	(CZ) Civilizations
16613	GSF	361	MONEY, SEX, POWER	Feminist research on gender dynamics in markets, economies, and capitalism. Includes empirical studies (e.g., historical, cross-cultural, and sociological research) and theoretical approaches to political-economic critique. Covered topics may include the gender, racial and transnational divisions of labor, the relation between work and family, waged household labor, sex work, sweatshop labor.	(SS) Social Sciences
16613	RIGHTS	361	MONEY, SEX, POWER	Feminist research on gender dynamics in markets, economies, and capitalism. Includes empirical studies (e.g., historical, cross-cultural, and sociological research) and theoretical approaches to political-economic critique. Covered topics may include the gender, racial and transnational divisions of labor, the relation between work and family, waged household labor, sex work, sweatshop labor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
16613	RIGHTS	361	MONEY, SEX, POWER	Feminist research on gender dynamics in markets, economies, and capitalism. Includes empirical studies (e.g., historical, cross-cultural, and sociological research) and theoretical approaches to political-economic critique. Covered topics may include the gender, racial and transnational divisions of labor, the relation between work and family, waged household labor, sex work, sweatshop labor.	(CZ) Civilizations
16613	RIGHTS	361	MONEY, SEX, POWER	Feminist research on gender dynamics in markets, economies, and capitalism. Includes empirical studies (e.g., historical, cross-cultural, and sociological research) and theoretical approaches to political-economic critique. Covered topics may include the gender, racial and transnational divisions of labor, the relation between work and family, waged household labor, sex work, sweatshop labor.	(SS) Social Sciences
16730	AAAS	290	SPECIAL TOPCS	Topics vary from semester to semester.	Topics Course
16731	AAAS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of African & African American Studies 290.	Seminar
16731	AAAS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of African & African American Studies 290.	Topics Course
16771	CINE	 310S	ACTING FOR THE CAMERA	Introduction to film and television acting. Prerequisite: Theater Studies 145S Acting.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16771	CINE	 310S	ACTING FOR THE CAMERA	Introduction to film and television acting. Prerequisite: Theater Studies 145S Acting.	Seminar
16771	THEATRST	 275S	ACTING FOR THE CAMERA	Introduction to film and television acting. Prerequisite: Theater Studies 145S Acting.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
16771	THEATRST	 275S	ACTING FOR THE CAMERA	Introduction to film and television acting. Prerequisite: Theater Studies 145S Acting.	Seminar
16812	PHYSICS	 141L9	GENERAL PHYSICS I (LAB)	Lab component for Physics 141L.	Course has a lecture
16816	PHYSICS	 152L9	INTRO ELECTRIC, MAGNET, OPTICS	Laboratory component of Physics 152L.	Course has a lecture
16817	PHYSICS	 152L9D	INTRO ELECTRIC, MAGNET, OPTICS	Discussion Component of Physics 152L.	Course has a lecture
16844	ARTHIST	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ART HISTORY	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines or art-historical areas. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
16844	ARTHIST	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ART HISTORY	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines or art-historical areas. Consent of instructor required.	Topics Course
16959	ECON	361	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16959	ECON	361	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(SS) Social Sciences
16959	PHIL	246	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16959	PHIL	246	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(SS) Social Sciences
16959	POLSCI	331	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16959	POLSCI	331	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(SS) Social Sciences
16959	RIGHTS	331	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
16959	RIGHTS	331	PRISONER'S DILEMMA/DISTR JUSTI	Economic, political, and philosophical perspectives on distribution justice and the problems in each discipline raised by variations on the prisoner's dilemma. Classic texts include Hobbes and Hume, Smith and Mill, Rawls and Nozick. Gateway course to the Politics, Philosophy, and Economics certificate program. Recommended prerequisite: Economics 101 and a course in ethics or political philosophy.	(SS) Social Sciences
17124	ECE	 110L	FUND OF ELEC AND COMP ENGR	Students learn core ECE concepts, providing a foundation on which subsequent courses build. Concepts include techniques for analyzing linear circuits, semiconductor and photonic devices, frequency representation, filtering, combinational and sequential logic. Central to the course is an extensive design challenge that requires students to integrate knowledge across topics while honing practical design and project management skills. Course culminates in an exciting competition in which teams of robots race to overcome challenging obstacles using sensor data acquisition and processing. Prerequisite/corequisite: (Engineering 103L or Computer Science 201) and (Mathematics 112L or 22 or equivalent).	Course has lab
17278	CHINESE	455	MODERN CHINESE CULTURE	Major works in Chinese literature, film, and other cultural media in their creation of the spectacle of 'Modern China' at home and abroad. All reading materials and class discussion in Chinese. Prerequisite: Chinese language proficiency at the fourth year level or the equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17278	CHINESE	455	MODERN CHINESE CULTURE	Major works in Chinese literature, film, and other cultural media in their creation of the spectacle of 'Modern China' at home and abroad. All reading materials and class discussion in Chinese. Prerequisite: Chinese language proficiency at the fourth year level or the equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
17278	CHINESE	455	MODERN CHINESE CULTURE	Major works in Chinese literature, film, and other cultural media in their creation of the spectacle of 'Modern China' at home and abroad. All reading materials and class discussion in Chinese. Prerequisite: Chinese language proficiency at the fourth year level or the equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
17292	ECS	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(NS) Natural Sciences
17292	ECS	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(SS) Social Sciences
17292	ECS	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
17292	ENERGY	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(NS) Natural Sciences
17292	ENERGY	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(SS) Social Sciences
17292	ENERGY	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
17292	ENVIRON	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(NS) Natural Sciences
17292	ENVIRON	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(SS) Social Sciences
17292	ENVIRON	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
17292	EOS	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(NS) Natural Sciences
17292	EOS	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(SS) Social Sciences
17292	EOS	231	ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT	Overview of the challenges confronting humanity as a consequence of our reliance on energy. Challenges include dwindling supplies, rising demand and environmental degradation. Realistic responses require an understanding of the complexity of the energy system, including energy resources, uses, and impacts, in the context of social, political and economic imperatives. Lectures will be augmented by presentations from guest speakers from industry, government and non-profit organizations.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
17299	ECON	493	HONORS RSRCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is the production of an honors thesis, containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Prerequisites: Economics 201D and Economics 210D. Consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies required.	(R) Research
17299	ECON	493	HONORS RSRCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is the production of an honors thesis, containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Prerequisites: Economics 201D and Economics 210D. Consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies required.	Independent Study
17353	EDUC	 407S	TEACHING PRAC IN MATH AND SCI	Research-based teaching practices in elementary mathematics and science for culturally diverse populations. Emphasis on the influence of science, mathematics, and technology in social issues and shaping teacher decision making about teaching and learning. Readings and field experience on ethical teaching practices, role of teachers and schools in society, and impact of teacher effect on environment and student learning. Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
17353	EDUC	 407S	TEACHING PRAC IN MATH AND SCI	Research-based teaching practices in elementary mathematics and science for culturally diverse populations. Emphasis on the influence of science, mathematics, and technology in social issues and shaping teacher decision making about teaching and learning. Readings and field experience on ethical teaching practices, role of teachers and schools in society, and impact of teacher effect on environment and student learning. Consent of instructor required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
17353	EDUC	 407S	TEACHING PRAC IN MATH AND SCI	Research-based teaching practices in elementary mathematics and science for culturally diverse populations. Emphasis on the influence of science, mathematics, and technology in social issues and shaping teacher decision making about teaching and learning. Readings and field experience on ethical teaching practices, role of teachers and schools in society, and impact of teacher effect on environment and student learning. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
17356	ARTSVIS	 240S	COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY	Field-based course examining color photography as a documentary tool. Students learn about aesthetic and technical foundations of color photography using recent digital technology. Class-conducted intensive examination of the work of historic and contemporary color documentary photographers. Advanced techniques in film scanning, Photoshop, and color pigment printing. Completion of semester-long color photographic project, and final project consisting of production of a series of color pigment prints.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17356	ARTSVIS	 240S	COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY	Field-based course examining color photography as a documentary tool. Students learn about aesthetic and technical foundations of color photography using recent digital technology. Class-conducted intensive examination of the work of historic and contemporary color documentary photographers. Advanced techniques in film scanning, Photoshop, and color pigment printing. Completion of semester-long color photographic project, and final project consisting of production of a series of color pigment prints.	Seminar
17356	DOCST	 236S	COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY	Field-based course examining color photography as a documentary tool. Students learn about aesthetic and technical foundations of color photography using recent digital technology. Class-conducted intensive examination of the work of historic and contemporary color documentary photographers. Advanced techniques in film scanning, Photoshop, and color pigment printing. Completion of semester-long color photographic project, and final project consisting of production of a series of color pigment prints.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17356	DOCST	 236S	COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY	Field-based course examining color photography as a documentary tool. Students learn about aesthetic and technical foundations of color photography using recent digital technology. Class-conducted intensive examination of the work of historic and contemporary color documentary photographers. Advanced techniques in film scanning, Photoshop, and color pigment printing. Completion of semester-long color photographic project, and final project consisting of production of a series of color pigment prints.	Seminar
17356	VMS	 227S	COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY	Field-based course examining color photography as a documentary tool. Students learn about aesthetic and technical foundations of color photography using recent digital technology. Class-conducted intensive examination of the work of historic and contemporary color documentary photographers. Advanced techniques in film scanning, Photoshop, and color pigment printing. Completion of semester-long color photographic project, and final project consisting of production of a series of color pigment prints.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17356	VMS	 227S	COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY	Field-based course examining color photography as a documentary tool. Students learn about aesthetic and technical foundations of color photography using recent digital technology. Class-conducted intensive examination of the work of historic and contemporary color documentary photographers. Advanced techniques in film scanning, Photoshop, and color pigment printing. Completion of semester-long color photographic project, and final project consisting of production of a series of color pigment prints.	Seminar
17358	EVANTH	 495S	ADV RESEARCH EVOL/ANTHROPOLOGY	Advanced research in Evolutionary Anthropology topic, typically leading to Graduation with Distinction. Course includes a one-hour weekly seminar on topics such as hypothesis testing, writing proposals, research design, data analysis with a strong emphasis on writing. Students will complete the introduction (literature review) and methods of their thesis along with a tentative results. Students are also expected to work with a faculty mentor conducting original research equivalent to a research independent study. Instructor consent required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
17358	EVANTH	 495S	ADV RESEARCH EVOL/ANTHROPOLOGY	Advanced research in Evolutionary Anthropology topic, typically leading to Graduation with Distinction. Course includes a one-hour weekly seminar on topics such as hypothesis testing, writing proposals, research design, data analysis with a strong emphasis on writing. Students will complete the introduction (literature review) and methods of their thesis along with a tentative results. Students are also expected to work with a faculty mentor conducting original research equivalent to a research independent study. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
17358	EVANTH	 495S	ADV RESEARCH EVOL/ANTHROPOLOGY	Advanced research in Evolutionary Anthropology topic, typically leading to Graduation with Distinction. Course includes a one-hour weekly seminar on topics such as hypothesis testing, writing proposals, research design, data analysis with a strong emphasis on writing. Students will complete the introduction (literature review) and methods of their thesis along with a tentative results. Students are also expected to work with a faculty mentor conducting original research equivalent to a research independent study. Instructor consent required.	(W) Writing
17358	EVANTH	 495S	ADV RESEARCH EVOL/ANTHROPOLOGY	Advanced research in Evolutionary Anthropology topic, typically leading to Graduation with Distinction. Course includes a one-hour weekly seminar on topics such as hypothesis testing, writing proposals, research design, data analysis with a strong emphasis on writing. Students will complete the introduction (literature review) and methods of their thesis along with a tentative results. Students are also expected to work with a faculty mentor conducting original research equivalent to a research independent study. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
17367	VMS	 202D	INTRODUCTION TO VISUAL CULTURE	Survey of visual culture, from issues of production, circulation and reception to how visual media have historically exerted power, elicited desire, and constructed social experience. Topics include: how photography, television, film, video, Internet, advertising, comics, and other imagery code vision and inscribe race, gender, sexuality and class differences, and dominate nature and animals; how the gaze links cultural performativity, from the coliseum to shopping malls and museums to sports events; and how the rhetoric and semiotics of representation provide access to ways in which visual meaning is socially, politically, and culturally produced and obtained. (Team-taught.)	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17367	VMS	 202D	INTRODUCTION TO VISUAL CULTURE	Survey of visual culture, from issues of production, circulation and reception to how visual media have historically exerted power, elicited desire, and constructed social experience. Topics include: how photography, television, film, video, Internet, advertising, comics, and other imagery code vision and inscribe race, gender, sexuality and class differences, and dominate nature and animals; how the gaze links cultural performativity, from the coliseum to shopping malls and museums to sports events; and how the rhetoric and semiotics of representation provide access to ways in which visual meaning is socially, politically, and culturally produced and obtained. (Team-taught.)	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
17367	VMS	 202D	INTRODUCTION TO VISUAL CULTURE	Survey of visual culture, from issues of production, circulation and reception to how visual media have historically exerted power, elicited desire, and constructed social experience. Topics include: how photography, television, film, video, Internet, advertising, comics, and other imagery code vision and inscribe race, gender, sexuality and class differences, and dominate nature and animals; how the gaze links cultural performativity, from the coliseum to shopping malls and museums to sports events; and how the rhetoric and semiotics of representation provide access to ways in which visual meaning is socially, politically, and culturally produced and obtained. (Team-taught.)	(CZ) Civilizations
17438	SOCIOL	 490S-1	RESEARCH SEMINAR (TOP)	Directed research on a particular theme in a collaborative workshop using basic skills to assist in designing, carrying out, and writing up original research. A substantive paper with significant analysis and interpretation required. Themes vary semester to semester.	Seminar
17438	SOCIOL	 490S-1	RESEARCH SEMINAR (TOP)	Directed research on a particular theme in a collaborative workshop using basic skills to assist in designing, carrying out, and writing up original research. A substantive paper with significant analysis and interpretation required. Themes vary semester to semester.	Topics Course
17450	ECE	 110L9	FUND OF ELEC AND COMP ENG	Students learn core ECE concepts, providing a foundation on which subsequent courses build. Concepts include techniques for analyzing linear circuits, semiconductor and photonic devices, frequency representation, filtering, combinational and sequential logic. Central to the course is an extensive design challenge that requires students to integrate knowledge across topics while honing practical design and project management skills. Course culminates in an exciting competition in which teams of robots race to overcome challenging obstacles using sensor data acquisition and processing. Prerequisite/corequisite: (Engineering 103L or Computer Science 201) and (Mathematics 112L or 22 or equivalent).	Course has a lecture
17453	ENVIRON	 210D	CONSERVING THE VARIETY OF LIFE	An overview of biological diversity, its patterns, and the current extinction crisis. Historical and theoretical foundations of conservation, from human values and law to criteria and frameworks for setting conservation priorities; island biogeography theory, landscape ecology, and socioeconomic considerations in reserve design; management of endangered species in the wild and in captivity; managing protected areas for long term viability of populations; the role of the landscape matrix around protected areas; and techniques for conserving biological diversity in semi-wild productive ecosystems such as forests.	(NS) Natural Sciences
17453	ENVIRON	 210D	CONSERVING THE VARIETY OF LIFE	An overview of biological diversity, its patterns, and the current extinction crisis. Historical and theoretical foundations of conservation, from human values and law to criteria and frameworks for setting conservation priorities; island biogeography theory, landscape ecology, and socioeconomic considerations in reserve design; management of endangered species in the wild and in captivity; managing protected areas for long term viability of populations; the role of the landscape matrix around protected areas; and techniques for conserving biological diversity in semi-wild productive ecosystems such as forests.	(SS) Social Sciences
17456	SOCIOL	333	QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS SOCIOLOG	Introduction to quantitative analysis in sociological research, including principles of research design and the use of empirical evidence, particularly from social surveys. Descriptive and inferential statistics, contingency table analysis, and regression analysis. Emphasis on analysis of data, interpretation and presentation of results. Not open to students who have taken another 100-level (or above) statistics course. Course restricted to first and second Sociology majors.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
17456	SOCIOL	333	QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS SOCIOLOG	Introduction to quantitative analysis in sociological research, including principles of research design and the use of empirical evidence, particularly from social surveys. Descriptive and inferential statistics, contingency table analysis, and regression analysis. Emphasis on analysis of data, interpretation and presentation of results. Not open to students who have taken another 100-level (or above) statistics course. Course restricted to first and second Sociology majors.	(SS) Social Sciences
17476	STA	 470S	INTRO STATISTICAL CONSULTING	Immerses students into real world consulting, exposing them to all aspects of research including data collection, modeling, and evaluating results. Through campus-wide consulting program, students work with researchers from various disciplines providing recommendations for statistical methodologies appropriate for their research. Projects examined through lens of research ethics underlying data collection, model assumptions, analysis, reproducibility, and reporting of results. Case studies such as the recent Potti case highlight what can go wrong in interdisciplinary research when researchers are not vigilant of the highest ethical standards. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360L or 601.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17476	STA	 470S	INTRO STATISTICAL CONSULTING	Immerses students into real world consulting, exposing them to all aspects of research including data collection, modeling, and evaluating results. Through campus-wide consulting program, students work with researchers from various disciplines providing recommendations for statistical methodologies appropriate for their research. Projects examined through lens of research ethics underlying data collection, model assumptions, analysis, reproducibility, and reporting of results. Case studies such as the recent Potti case highlight what can go wrong in interdisciplinary research when researchers are not vigilant of the highest ethical standards. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360L or 601.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
17476	STA	 470S	INTRO STATISTICAL CONSULTING	Immerses students into real world consulting, exposing them to all aspects of research including data collection, modeling, and evaluating results. Through campus-wide consulting program, students work with researchers from various disciplines providing recommendations for statistical methodologies appropriate for their research. Projects examined through lens of research ethics underlying data collection, model assumptions, analysis, reproducibility, and reporting of results. Case studies such as the recent Potti case highlight what can go wrong in interdisciplinary research when researchers are not vigilant of the highest ethical standards. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360L or 601.	(R) Research
17476	STA	 470S	INTRO STATISTICAL CONSULTING	Immerses students into real world consulting, exposing them to all aspects of research including data collection, modeling, and evaluating results. Through campus-wide consulting program, students work with researchers from various disciplines providing recommendations for statistical methodologies appropriate for their research. Projects examined through lens of research ethics underlying data collection, model assumptions, analysis, reproducibility, and reporting of results. Case studies such as the recent Potti case highlight what can go wrong in interdisciplinary research when researchers are not vigilant of the highest ethical standards. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360L or 601.	(W) Writing
17476	STA	 470S	INTRO STATISTICAL CONSULTING	Immerses students into real world consulting, exposing them to all aspects of research including data collection, modeling, and evaluating results. Through campus-wide consulting program, students work with researchers from various disciplines providing recommendations for statistical methodologies appropriate for their research. Projects examined through lens of research ethics underlying data collection, model assumptions, analysis, reproducibility, and reporting of results. Case studies such as the recent Potti case highlight what can go wrong in interdisciplinary research when researchers are not vigilant of the highest ethical standards. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360L or 601.	Seminar
17483	STA	 360L	BAYESIAN AND MODERN STATISTICS	Principles of data analysis and advanced statistical modeling. Bayesian inference, prior and posterior distributions, multi-level models, model checking and selection, stochastic simulation by Markov Chain Monte Carlo. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 210 and (Statistical Science 230, 231, or 240L) and (Mathematics 202, 202D, 212, or 222) and (Computer Science 101L, Computer Science 102L, Computer Science 201, or Engineering 103L) and (Mathematics 216, 218, or 221). Corequisite: Statistical Science 211.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
17483	STA	 360L	BAYESIAN AND MODERN STATISTICS	Principles of data analysis and advanced statistical modeling. Bayesian inference, prior and posterior distributions, multi-level models, model checking and selection, stochastic simulation by Markov Chain Monte Carlo. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 210 and (Statistical Science 230, 231, or 240L) and (Mathematics 202, 202D, 212, or 222) and (Computer Science 101L, Computer Science 102L, Computer Science 201, or Engineering 103L) and (Mathematics 216, 218, or 221). Corequisite: Statistical Science 211.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
17497	ENGLISH	 390-6	SPECIAL TOPICS IN FILM	A lecture version of 390S-6. Satisfies the Area III requirement for English majors.	Topics Course
17504	PHYSICS	 142L9	GENERAL PHYSICS II (LAB)	Lab component for Physics 142L.	Course has a lecture
17595	MMS	370	MANAGERIAL FINANCE	Concepts and processes of corporate finance; functions, technology and techniques of financial management. Topics include analysis of financial statements, ratio analysis and the statement of cash flows; capital budgeting; risk and return; stocks and bonds; cost of capital; financial institutions; securities markets and international finance. Not open to first year students.	(SS) Social Sciences
17601	MATH	 202D	MULTIVAR CALCULUS FOR ECON	Gaussian elimination, matrix algebra, determinants, linear independence. Calculus of several variables, chain rule, implicit differentiation. Optimization, first order conditions, Lagrange multipliers. Integration of functions of several variables. Prerequisite: Mathematics 22, 112L, 122, or 122L. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 212, 216, 218D-1, 218D-2, 219, 221, or 222.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
17849	SOCIOL	338	THEORY AND SOCIETY	Selective survey of major classical and modern social theorists from the Enlightenment to the present. Attention to theories seeking to follow models of the natural sciences and those seeking a more critical and interpretive understanding of modern society. Sociological theory in relation to other modern currents, such as conservatism, socialism, existentialism, anti-colonialism, feminism, post-modernism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
17849	SOCIOL	338	THEORY AND SOCIETY	Selective survey of major classical and modern social theorists from the Enlightenment to the present. Attention to theories seeking to follow models of the natural sciences and those seeking a more critical and interpretive understanding of modern society. Sociological theory in relation to other modern currents, such as conservatism, socialism, existentialism, anti-colonialism, feminism, post-modernism.	(SS) Social Sciences
17849	SOCIOL	338	THEORY AND SOCIETY	Selective survey of major classical and modern social theorists from the Enlightenment to the present. Attention to theories seeking to follow models of the natural sciences and those seeking a more critical and interpretive understanding of modern society. Sociological theory in relation to other modern currents, such as conservatism, socialism, existentialism, anti-colonialism, feminism, post-modernism.	(W) Writing
17875	ARTSVIS	 212S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17875	ARTSVIS	 212S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17875	ARTSVIS	 212S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
17875	DOCST	 209S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17875	DOCST	 209S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17875	DOCST	 209S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
17875	EDUC	 209S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17875	EDUC	 209S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17875	EDUC	 209S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
17875	VMS	 212S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
17875	VMS	 212S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17875	VMS	 212S	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. Consent of instructor required.	Seminar
17895	AMES	 315S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
17895	AMES	 315S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	(CZ) Civilizations
17895	AMES	 315S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17895	AMES	 315S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	Seminar
17895	RELIGION	 323S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
17895	RELIGION	 323S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	(CZ) Civilizations
17895	RELIGION	 323S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17895	RELIGION	 323S	BUDDHIST MEDITATION	Buddhist paths and techniques of self-transformation in premodern and modern Buddhist cultures. Conceptions of the psychophysical person and goals of Buddhist practice assumed by these meditative techniques. Reinterpretation and modification of traditional meditation practices in contemporary Buddhist societies. Students who took this course as an 89S First Year Seminar are not eligible to enroll.	Seminar
17911	CHILDPOL	 250S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	(R) Research
17911	CHILDPOL	 250S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	(SS) Social Sciences
17911	CHILDPOL	 250S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	(W) Writing
17911	CHILDPOL	 250S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	Seminar
17911	PUBPOL	 242S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	(R) Research
17911	PUBPOL	 242S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	(SS) Social Sciences
17911	PUBPOL	 242S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	(W) Writing
17911	PUBPOL	 242S	CHILD POLICY RESEARCH	Major developmental stages of childhood and influences in a child's life: parents/family life, schools, communities, and the economy. Emphasis on 1) applying theory for analyzing complex societal problems (often involving issues of race, class, and gender); 2) using material and methodologies from psychology, sociology, economics, and public policy. Required course for certificate program Child Policy Research, but open to all undergraduate students.	Seminar
17949	GLHLTH	210	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17949	GLHLTH	210	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(SS) Social Sciences
17949	ICS	397	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17949	ICS	397	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(SS) Social Sciences
17949	PUBPOL	330	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17949	PUBPOL	330	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(SS) Social Sciences
17949	RIGHTS	330	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
17949	RIGHTS	330	GLOBAL HEALTH ETHICS	The primary foci of this course are: the ethics of engagement with marginalized/stigmatized populations; understanding the influence of power dynamics; and understanding the ways in which policies create structures that limit abilities. Students explore the roots of their personal value systems and those of others, in an effort to understand causes of conflict and ethical missteps in global health engagement. Involves reading texts and coming to class ready to engage in conversations and activities related to the learning objectives. Weekly 5-question quizzes help to ensure that students come to class prepared to engage with the material.	(SS) Social Sciences
17951	FOCUS	 195FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN FOCUS	Forum for discussing and bridging the varied interdisciplinary issues that arise within the individual Focus Program seminars. May include group discussion, readings, guest lectures, film viewings, and other educational activities. Open only to participants in the Focus Program. Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory grading only.	Topics Course
18026	ICS	 495S	SENIOR HONORS SEMINAR	First semester of a two course sequence. Open to seniors pursuing Distinction in International Comparative Studies. Course supports beginning stages (project design, research, draft composition) of an interdisciplinary research-based project on a question of interest relevant to critical transnationalism. Course fulfills senior capstone requirement for ICS. Consent of instructor based on application and project proposal.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18026	ICS	 495S	SENIOR HONORS SEMINAR	First semester of a two course sequence. Open to seniors pursuing Distinction in International Comparative Studies. Course supports beginning stages (project design, research, draft composition) of an interdisciplinary research-based project on a question of interest relevant to critical transnationalism. Course fulfills senior capstone requirement for ICS. Consent of instructor based on application and project proposal.	(CZ) Civilizations
18026	ICS	 495S	SENIOR HONORS SEMINAR	First semester of a two course sequence. Open to seniors pursuing Distinction in International Comparative Studies. Course supports beginning stages (project design, research, draft composition) of an interdisciplinary research-based project on a question of interest relevant to critical transnationalism. Course fulfills senior capstone requirement for ICS. Consent of instructor based on application and project proposal.	(R) Research
18026	ICS	 495S	SENIOR HONORS SEMINAR	First semester of a two course sequence. Open to seniors pursuing Distinction in International Comparative Studies. Course supports beginning stages (project design, research, draft composition) of an interdisciplinary research-based project on a question of interest relevant to critical transnationalism. Course fulfills senior capstone requirement for ICS. Consent of instructor based on application and project proposal.	(SS) Social Sciences
18026	ICS	 495S	SENIOR HONORS SEMINAR	First semester of a two course sequence. Open to seniors pursuing Distinction in International Comparative Studies. Course supports beginning stages (project design, research, draft composition) of an interdisciplinary research-based project on a question of interest relevant to critical transnationalism. Course fulfills senior capstone requirement for ICS. Consent of instructor based on application and project proposal.	(W) Writing
18026	ICS	 495S	SENIOR HONORS SEMINAR	First semester of a two course sequence. Open to seniors pursuing Distinction in International Comparative Studies. Course supports beginning stages (project design, research, draft composition) of an interdisciplinary research-based project on a question of interest relevant to critical transnationalism. Course fulfills senior capstone requirement for ICS. Consent of instructor based on application and project proposal.	Seminar
18032	POLSCI	206	AMERICAN VALUES, INST, CULTURE	Introduction to American political theory and institutional development from European settlement to Progressive Era; origins and evolution of key political institutions, including congress, federalism, the presidency, the party system, and Supreme Court; ways in which these institutions resolve collective action problems; influence of competing political ideologiesespecially, liberalism, puritanism, republicanismon American political development; role of political ideologies and institutions in re-enforcing and resisting slavery, as well as racial and gender inequality.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18032	POLSCI	206	AMERICAN VALUES, INST, CULTURE	Introduction to American political theory and institutional development from European settlement to Progressive Era; origins and evolution of key political institutions, including congress, federalism, the presidency, the party system, and Supreme Court; ways in which these institutions resolve collective action problems; influence of competing political ideologiesespecially, liberalism, puritanism, republicanismon American political development; role of political ideologies and institutions in re-enforcing and resisting slavery, as well as racial and gender inequality.	(SS) Social Sciences
18085	ARTHIST	 190FS	TOPICS IN ART HISTORY	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines, art-historical areas, and visual culture. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
18085	ARTHIST	 190FS	TOPICS IN ART HISTORY	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines, art-historical areas, and visual culture. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Topics Course
18086	HISTORY	 190FS	TOPICS IN FOCUS PROGRAM	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Current list of courses available in the Focus program brochure and online.	Seminar
18086	HISTORY	 190FS	TOPICS IN FOCUS PROGRAM	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Current list of courses available in the Focus program brochure and online.	Topics Course
18094	PUBPOL	 190FS	FOCUS PROGRAM SPECIAL TOPICS	Introductory and basic topics in public policy. Topics vary each semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
18094	PUBPOL	 190FS	FOCUS PROGRAM SPECIAL TOPICS	Introductory and basic topics in public policy. Topics vary each semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Topics Course
18102	CINE	202	HISTORY OF DOCUMENTARY FILM	Introduction to the history, theory, and styles of nonfiction film and video.  Transformation in technologies and their influence on form, from actuality films to contemporary digital documentaries.  Documentary's marginal status and surprising commercial appeal; the mixing of fiction and nonfiction strategies in cultural construction.  Use of documentary as a tool for exploring individual identity, filmmaker/subject relationships, and fomenting political change.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18102	CINE	202	HISTORY OF DOCUMENTARY FILM	Introduction to the history, theory, and styles of nonfiction film and video.  Transformation in technologies and their influence on form, from actuality films to contemporary digital documentaries.  Documentary's marginal status and surprising commercial appeal; the mixing of fiction and nonfiction strategies in cultural construction.  Use of documentary as a tool for exploring individual identity, filmmaker/subject relationships, and fomenting political change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18102	DOCST	107	HISTORY OF DOCUMENTARY FILM	Introduction to the history, theory, and styles of nonfiction film and video.  Transformation in technologies and their influence on form, from actuality films to contemporary digital documentaries.  Documentary's marginal status and surprising commercial appeal; the mixing of fiction and nonfiction strategies in cultural construction.  Use of documentary as a tool for exploring individual identity, filmmaker/subject relationships, and fomenting political change.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18102	DOCST	107	HISTORY OF DOCUMENTARY FILM	Introduction to the history, theory, and styles of nonfiction film and video.  Transformation in technologies and their influence on form, from actuality films to contemporary digital documentaries.  Documentary's marginal status and surprising commercial appeal; the mixing of fiction and nonfiction strategies in cultural construction.  Use of documentary as a tool for exploring individual identity, filmmaker/subject relationships, and fomenting political change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18102	VMS	265	HISTORY OF DOCUMENTARY FILM	Introduction to the history, theory, and styles of nonfiction film and video.  Transformation in technologies and their influence on form, from actuality films to contemporary digital documentaries.  Documentary's marginal status and surprising commercial appeal; the mixing of fiction and nonfiction strategies in cultural construction.  Use of documentary as a tool for exploring individual identity, filmmaker/subject relationships, and fomenting political change.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18102	VMS	265	HISTORY OF DOCUMENTARY FILM	Introduction to the history, theory, and styles of nonfiction film and video.  Transformation in technologies and their influence on form, from actuality films to contemporary digital documentaries.  Documentary's marginal status and surprising commercial appeal; the mixing of fiction and nonfiction strategies in cultural construction.  Use of documentary as a tool for exploring individual identity, filmmaker/subject relationships, and fomenting political change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18106	ARTSVIS	 325S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18106	ARTSVIS	 325S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	Seminar
18106	CINE	 385S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18106	CINE	 385S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	Seminar
18106	DOCST	 285S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18106	DOCST	 285S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	Seminar
18106	VMS	 379S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18106	VMS	 379S	VISITING FILMMAKER MASTER CRS	Intensive production courses with visiting filmmaker.  Topics vary by semester.  May be taken twice.	Seminar
18147	POLSCI	 180FS	NATURE OF FREEDOM	Course examines themes that emerge from the classics of political thought through contemporary work in the analytic social science tradition. Employs the tools of game theory to consider simple models of social and political interaction that shed light on the emergence of formal and informal institutions that govern individual behavior, and the role of these institutions in securing individual freedom. Reliance on analytic models is what differentiates this course from a historical or philosophical inquiry. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18147	POLSCI	 180FS	NATURE OF FREEDOM	Course examines themes that emerge from the classics of political thought through contemporary work in the analytic social science tradition. Employs the tools of game theory to consider simple models of social and political interaction that shed light on the emergence of formal and informal institutions that govern individual behavior, and the role of these institutions in securing individual freedom. Reliance on analytic models is what differentiates this course from a historical or philosophical inquiry. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
18147	POLSCI	 180FS	NATURE OF FREEDOM	Course examines themes that emerge from the classics of political thought through contemporary work in the analytic social science tradition. Employs the tools of game theory to consider simple models of social and political interaction that shed light on the emergence of formal and informal institutions that govern individual behavior, and the role of these institutions in securing individual freedom. Reliance on analytic models is what differentiates this course from a historical or philosophical inquiry. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
18147	POLSCI	 180FS	NATURE OF FREEDOM	Course examines themes that emerge from the classics of political thought through contemporary work in the analytic social science tradition. Employs the tools of game theory to consider simple models of social and political interaction that shed light on the emergence of formal and informal institutions that govern individual behavior, and the role of these institutions in securing individual freedom. Reliance on analytic models is what differentiates this course from a historical or philosophical inquiry. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
18221	PHARM	495	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a pharmacology-related area under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of the study results. Open to juniors and seniors who have already taken Pharmacology 493 and 494, with consent of supervising instructor.	(R) Research
18221	PHARM	495	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a pharmacology-related area under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of the study results. Open to juniors and seniors who have already taken Pharmacology 493 and 494, with consent of supervising instructor.	Independent Study
18233	ARTSVIS	 497S	ADVANCED VISUAL PRACTICE	Majors in the fall of their senior year work on independent projects in a group situation. Students meet weekly with professor teaching course to discuss progress and monthly with full Visual Arts and Visual and Media Studies faculty for critiques. This course serves as anchor course for students participating in Graduation with Distinction in Visual Arts and those Graduation with Distinction students in Visual and Media Studies with a practice-based component to their project. Initial development of projects during the fall semester, brought to completion in the Capstone course in spring. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18233	ARTSVIS	 497S	ADVANCED VISUAL PRACTICE	Majors in the fall of their senior year work on independent projects in a group situation. Students meet weekly with professor teaching course to discuss progress and monthly with full Visual Arts and Visual and Media Studies faculty for critiques. This course serves as anchor course for students participating in Graduation with Distinction in Visual Arts and those Graduation with Distinction students in Visual and Media Studies with a practice-based component to their project. Initial development of projects during the fall semester, brought to completion in the Capstone course in spring. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
18233	VMS	 497S	ADVANCED VISUAL PRACTICE	Majors in the fall of their senior year work on independent projects in a group situation. Students meet weekly with professor teaching course to discuss progress and monthly with full Visual Arts and Visual and Media Studies faculty for critiques. This course serves as anchor course for students participating in Graduation with Distinction in Visual Arts and those Graduation with Distinction students in Visual and Media Studies with a practice-based component to their project. Initial development of projects during the fall semester, brought to completion in the Capstone course in spring. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18233	VMS	 497S	ADVANCED VISUAL PRACTICE	Majors in the fall of their senior year work on independent projects in a group situation. Students meet weekly with professor teaching course to discuss progress and monthly with full Visual Arts and Visual and Media Studies faculty for critiques. This course serves as anchor course for students participating in Graduation with Distinction in Visual Arts and those Graduation with Distinction students in Visual and Media Studies with a practice-based component to their project. Initial development of projects during the fall semester, brought to completion in the Capstone course in spring. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
18250	FRENCH	 327S	FRENCH STUDIES SEMINAR	A literary, cross-cultural critique focusing on specific topics to be announced. Open only to first years and sophomores. May be repeated if a different topic. Prerequisite: French 204, or SAT II score in French of 640 or higher, or AP score in French of 5.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18250	FRENCH	 327S	FRENCH STUDIES SEMINAR	A literary, cross-cultural critique focusing on specific topics to be announced. Open only to first years and sophomores. May be repeated if a different topic. Prerequisite: French 204, or SAT II score in French of 640 or higher, or AP score in French of 5.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18250	FRENCH	 327S	FRENCH STUDIES SEMINAR	A literary, cross-cultural critique focusing on specific topics to be announced. Open only to first years and sophomores. May be repeated if a different topic. Prerequisite: French 204, or SAT II score in French of 640 or higher, or AP score in French of 5.	(FL) Foreign Language
18250	FRENCH	 327S	FRENCH STUDIES SEMINAR	A literary, cross-cultural critique focusing on specific topics to be announced. Open only to first years and sophomores. May be repeated if a different topic. Prerequisite: French 204, or SAT II score in French of 640 or higher, or AP score in French of 5.	Seminar
18273	LSGS	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18273	LSGS	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(CZ) Civilizations
18273	LSGS	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(FL) Foreign Language
18273	LSGS	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(W) Writing
18273	LSGS	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	Seminar
18273	SPANISH	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18273	SPANISH	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(CZ) Civilizations
18273	SPANISH	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(FL) Foreign Language
18273	SPANISH	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	(W) Writing
18273	SPANISH	 308S	LATINX VOICES IN DUKE, DURHAM	Construction of Latinx identity(ies) and formation of community voices through the lens of cultural, political, and social issues at local and national level. Assessment on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish. Includes service-learning component. Recommended students take 300-level Spanish course prior to enrolling.	Seminar
18299	CULANTH	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN FOCUS	Selected topics vary each semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.  Instructor consent required.	Seminar
18299	CULANTH	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN FOCUS	Selected topics vary each semester. Open only to students in the Focus Program.  Instructor consent required.	Topics Course
18436	NEUROSCI	 382L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROIMAGING	Overview of use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) in the investigation of human sensory, motor, and cognitive function. Topics will include FMRI to study human brain systems involved with movement, sensation, perception, and memory. Students will design and execute a neuroimaging experiment. Prior course in Statistics is strongly recommended. Consent of instructor required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
18436	NEUROSCI	 382L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROIMAGING	Overview of use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) in the investigation of human sensory, motor, and cognitive function. Topics will include FMRI to study human brain systems involved with movement, sensation, perception, and memory. Students will design and execute a neuroimaging experiment. Prior course in Statistics is strongly recommended. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
18436	PSY	 303L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROIMAGING	Overview of use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) in the investigation of human sensory, motor, and cognitive function. Topics will include FMRI to study human brain systems involved with movement, sensation, perception, and memory. Students will design and execute a neuroimaging experiment. Prior course in Statistics is strongly recommended. Consent of instructor required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
18436	PSY	 303L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROIMAGING	Overview of use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) in the investigation of human sensory, motor, and cognitive function. Topics will include FMRI to study human brain systems involved with movement, sensation, perception, and memory. Students will design and execute a neuroimaging experiment. Prior course in Statistics is strongly recommended. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
18465	SXL	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR	New concepts and themes in the Study of Sexualities. Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
18465	SXL	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR	New concepts and themes in the Study of Sexualities. Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
18531	CULANTH	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18531	CULANTH	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18531	CULANTH	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(SS) Social Sciences
18531	CULANTH	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
18531	GLHLTH	 321-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18531	GLHLTH	 321-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18531	GLHLTH	 321-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(SS) Social Sciences
18531	GLHLTH	 321-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
18531	HLTHPOL	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18531	HLTHPOL	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18531	HLTHPOL	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(SS) Social Sciences
18531	HLTHPOL	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
18531	ICS	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18531	ICS	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18531	ICS	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(SS) Social Sciences
18531	ICS	 424-1	MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY	Cross-cultural study of health and illness. Prerequisites: Completion of both Writing 101 and any First Year Seminar.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
18548	GLHLTH	499	GLOBAL HEALTH CAPSTONE	Capstone Course for students in Global Health Major. Group analysis of a current global health problem/issue. Project involves background research, data acquisition, analysis, writing, and presentation of a substantial research paper/report at an advanced level. Consent of program director required	(R) Research
18548	GLHLTH	499	GLOBAL HEALTH CAPSTONE	Capstone Course for students in Global Health Major. Group analysis of a current global health problem/issue. Project involves background research, data acquisition, analysis, writing, and presentation of a substantial research paper/report at an advanced level. Consent of program director required	(SS) Social Sciences
18565	AMES	 213S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18565	AMES	 213S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(CZ) Civilizations
18565	AMES	 213S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18565	AMES	 213S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	Seminar
18565	ETHICS	 345S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18565	ETHICS	 345S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(CZ) Civilizations
18565	ETHICS	 345S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18565	ETHICS	 345S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	Seminar
18565	RELIGION	 388S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18565	RELIGION	 388S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(CZ) Civilizations
18565	RELIGION	 388S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18565	RELIGION	 388S	MUSLIM ETHICS AND ISLAMIC LAW	Premodern judicial arrangements and the contestations surrounding their modern incarnations. Topics include bioethics, gender and family law, war and peace, environmental issues, and political ethics.	Seminar
18580	AAAS	140	INTRODUCTION TO JAZZ	Lecture version of Music 140D.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18580	AAAS	140	INTRODUCTION TO JAZZ	Lecture version of Music 140D.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18580	MUSIC	140	INTRODUCTION TO JAZZ	Lecture version of Music 140D.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18580	MUSIC	140	INTRODUCTION TO JAZZ	Lecture version of Music 140D.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18682	BME	290	INTERMEDIATE TOPICS	Intermediate subjects or selective topics related to programs within biomedical engineering. Consent of instructor required.	Topics Course
18704	CHEM	295	INTRO TO RESEARCH IND. STUDY	Includes research methodology, retrieval techniques for, and use of, the chemical literature, safety in the research laboratory, the ethical conduct of research, and writing a research proposal. Co-requisite: registration for a first course in research independent study in chemistry (393) or a related area. Lecture/discussion.	(NS) Natural Sciences
18704	CHEM	295	INTRO TO RESEARCH IND. STUDY	Includes research methodology, retrieval techniques for, and use of, the chemical literature, safety in the research laboratory, the ethical conduct of research, and writing a research proposal. Co-requisite: registration for a first course in research independent study in chemistry (393) or a related area. Lecture/discussion.	(W) Writing
18714	ICS	 489S	CAPSTONE: GLOBAL STUDIES	Interdisciplinary seminar for senior ICS majors; uses scholarship, literature and film to revisit critical global and transnational studies concepts and themes from ICS 195 at a level appropriate for seniors; writing-intensive, with assignments to facilitate analytical thinking; individual reflection on classroom, study away, and work experiences; library research; and engagement with the university intellectual and creative environment. Prerequisite: International Comparative Studies 195/History 103/Political Science 178/Religion 195/Sociology 195. Open to senior International Comparative Studies majors only.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
18714	ICS	 489S	CAPSTONE: GLOBAL STUDIES	Interdisciplinary seminar for senior ICS majors; uses scholarship, literature and film to revisit critical global and transnational studies concepts and themes from ICS 195 at a level appropriate for seniors; writing-intensive, with assignments to facilitate analytical thinking; individual reflection on classroom, study away, and work experiences; library research; and engagement with the university intellectual and creative environment. Prerequisite: International Comparative Studies 195/History 103/Political Science 178/Religion 195/Sociology 195. Open to senior International Comparative Studies majors only.	(CZ) Civilizations
18714	ICS	 489S	CAPSTONE: GLOBAL STUDIES	Interdisciplinary seminar for senior ICS majors; uses scholarship, literature and film to revisit critical global and transnational studies concepts and themes from ICS 195 at a level appropriate for seniors; writing-intensive, with assignments to facilitate analytical thinking; individual reflection on classroom, study away, and work experiences; library research; and engagement with the university intellectual and creative environment. Prerequisite: International Comparative Studies 195/History 103/Political Science 178/Religion 195/Sociology 195. Open to senior International Comparative Studies majors only.	(R) Research
18714	ICS	 489S	CAPSTONE: GLOBAL STUDIES	Interdisciplinary seminar for senior ICS majors; uses scholarship, literature and film to revisit critical global and transnational studies concepts and themes from ICS 195 at a level appropriate for seniors; writing-intensive, with assignments to facilitate analytical thinking; individual reflection on classroom, study away, and work experiences; library research; and engagement with the university intellectual and creative environment. Prerequisite: International Comparative Studies 195/History 103/Political Science 178/Religion 195/Sociology 195. Open to senior International Comparative Studies majors only.	(SS) Social Sciences
18714	ICS	 489S	CAPSTONE: GLOBAL STUDIES	Interdisciplinary seminar for senior ICS majors; uses scholarship, literature and film to revisit critical global and transnational studies concepts and themes from ICS 195 at a level appropriate for seniors; writing-intensive, with assignments to facilitate analytical thinking; individual reflection on classroom, study away, and work experiences; library research; and engagement with the university intellectual and creative environment. Prerequisite: International Comparative Studies 195/History 103/Political Science 178/Religion 195/Sociology 195. Open to senior International Comparative Studies majors only.	(W) Writing
18714	ICS	 489S	CAPSTONE: GLOBAL STUDIES	Interdisciplinary seminar for senior ICS majors; uses scholarship, literature and film to revisit critical global and transnational studies concepts and themes from ICS 195 at a level appropriate for seniors; writing-intensive, with assignments to facilitate analytical thinking; individual reflection on classroom, study away, and work experiences; library research; and engagement with the university intellectual and creative environment. Prerequisite: International Comparative Studies 195/History 103/Political Science 178/Religion 195/Sociology 195. Open to senior International Comparative Studies majors only.	Seminar
18776	MUSIC	161	INTRO TO MUSIC THEORY	This introductory course covers the fundamentals of music theory and music literacy through exploration of European classical repertoire, popular music idioms, written theory exercises, and the development of basic aural skills. Topics include clefs, key signatures, major and minor scales, time signatures, meter, intervals, triads, seventh chords, inversions, basic Roman numeral analysis, and form. Students also write short compositions that explore dynamics, phrasing, texture, dissonance treatment, harmonic function, formal function, and cadential syntax.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18790	MUSIC	 381T	COMPOSITION II	Same as Music 381S, in tutorial format. Individual lessons in compositional techniques. See Music 151 or 151A. Prerequisites: Music 261, 361, and 281S or 281T OR consent of instructor. Not open to students who have taken Music 381S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18790	MUSIC	 381T	COMPOSITION II	Same as Music 381S, in tutorial format. Individual lessons in compositional techniques. See Music 151 or 151A. Prerequisites: Music 261, 361, and 281S or 281T OR consent of instructor. Not open to students who have taken Music 381S.	(R) Research
18790	MUSIC	 381T	COMPOSITION II	Same as Music 381S, in tutorial format. Individual lessons in compositional techniques. See Music 151 or 151A. Prerequisites: Music 261, 361, and 281S or 281T OR consent of instructor. Not open to students who have taken Music 381S.	Tutorial
18791	MUSIC	 281T	COMPOSITION I	Same as Music 281S, in tutorial format. Composing original music in smaller forms for voice, piano, and other instruments. Studies in compositional techniques. Prerequisites: Music 261 and 361 or consent of instructor. Not open to students who have taken Music 281S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
18791	MUSIC	 281T	COMPOSITION I	Same as Music 281S, in tutorial format. Composing original music in smaller forms for voice, piano, and other instruments. Studies in compositional techniques. Prerequisites: Music 261 and 361 or consent of instructor. Not open to students who have taken Music 281S.	(R) Research
18791	MUSIC	 281T	COMPOSITION I	Same as Music 281S, in tutorial format. Composing original music in smaller forms for voice, piano, and other instruments. Studies in compositional techniques. Prerequisites: Music 261 and 361 or consent of instructor. Not open to students who have taken Music 281S.	Tutorial
18809	CHEM	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN CHEMISTRY	Focus version of Chemistry 190S.	Seminar
18809	CHEM	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN CHEMISTRY	Focus version of Chemistry 190S.	Topics Course
18814	SCISOC	 498S	SCIENCE & SOCIETY CAPSTONE	Create and apply knowledge gained through certificate course work and research experiences in an intensive, interdisciplinary, small group setting. Students work in small teams learning to analyze current issues in science and society and to consider the issue from scientific, social, and ethical perspectives, often for the benefit of a real-world client. Teams will present their research as an oral and/or written final project. Open only to graduating seniors in the Science and Society program or by consent of instructor.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
18814	SCISOC	 498S	SCIENCE & SOCIETY CAPSTONE	Create and apply knowledge gained through certificate course work and research experiences in an intensive, interdisciplinary, small group setting. Students work in small teams learning to analyze current issues in science and society and to consider the issue from scientific, social, and ethical perspectives, often for the benefit of a real-world client. Teams will present their research as an oral and/or written final project. Open only to graduating seniors in the Science and Society program or by consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
18814	SCISOC	 498S	SCIENCE & SOCIETY CAPSTONE	Create and apply knowledge gained through certificate course work and research experiences in an intensive, interdisciplinary, small group setting. Students work in small teams learning to analyze current issues in science and society and to consider the issue from scientific, social, and ethical perspectives, often for the benefit of a real-world client. Teams will present their research as an oral and/or written final project. Open only to graduating seniors in the Science and Society program or by consent of instructor.	(R) Research
18814	SCISOC	 498S	SCIENCE & SOCIETY CAPSTONE	Create and apply knowledge gained through certificate course work and research experiences in an intensive, interdisciplinary, small group setting. Students work in small teams learning to analyze current issues in science and society and to consider the issue from scientific, social, and ethical perspectives, often for the benefit of a real-world client. Teams will present their research as an oral and/or written final project. Open only to graduating seniors in the Science and Society program or by consent of instructor.	(SS) Social Sciences
18814	SCISOC	 498S	SCIENCE & SOCIETY CAPSTONE	Create and apply knowledge gained through certificate course work and research experiences in an intensive, interdisciplinary, small group setting. Students work in small teams learning to analyze current issues in science and society and to consider the issue from scientific, social, and ethical perspectives, often for the benefit of a real-world client. Teams will present their research as an oral and/or written final project. Open only to graduating seniors in the Science and Society program or by consent of instructor.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
18814	SCISOC	 498S	SCIENCE & SOCIETY CAPSTONE	Create and apply knowledge gained through certificate course work and research experiences in an intensive, interdisciplinary, small group setting. Students work in small teams learning to analyze current issues in science and society and to consider the issue from scientific, social, and ethical perspectives, often for the benefit of a real-world client. Teams will present their research as an oral and/or written final project. Open only to graduating seniors in the Science and Society program or by consent of instructor.	Seminar
18840	ME	491	SPECIAL PROJECTS	Individual projects arranged in consultation with a faculty member. Open only to seniors enrolled in the graduation with distinction program or showing special aptitude for research. Half course to two courses. To be taught in the Fall. Prerequisites: B average and consent of the director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
18844	ME	391	PROJECTS	Individual projects arranged in consultation with a faculty member. Open to students who show special aptitude for research and design. Taught in the Fall. Consent of director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
18850	VMS	392	INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Visual and Media Studies 391. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
18851	VMS	 290S	TOPICS IN VISUAL STUDIES	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines that relate to visual studies.	Seminar
18851	VMS	 290S	TOPICS IN VISUAL STUDIES	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines that relate to visual studies.	Topics Course
18876	SCISOC	 290S	TOPICS IN GENOME SCIENCES	Topics in genome sciences and policy.	Seminar
18876	SCISOC	 290S	TOPICS IN GENOME SCIENCES	Topics in genome sciences and policy.	Topics Course
18879	VMS	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Visual and Media Studies 393. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
18879	VMS	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Visual and Media Studies 393. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
18880	VMS	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or report. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
18881	VMS	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
18881	VMS	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
18884	VMS	492	INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Visual and Media Studies 491. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
18885	VMS	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or report. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
18886	VMS	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Visual and Media Studies 493. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
18886	VMS	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Visual and Media Studies 493. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
18887	VMS	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
18887	VMS	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
19018	RUSSIAN	310	RUSSIAN FAIRY TALE	Extending beyond both Russian and the fairy tale genre alone, this course explores Slavic folklore in two major categories: cultural practice, from magic to social rites and material culture, and lore, from folktales to epic poetry. We survey the folklore of Eastern (Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian), Western (Polish, Czech, Slovak) and South (Bulgarian, Croat, Serb, Macedonian, Slovenian) Slavs. This course offers knowledge of these places of the world while also showing how the study of folklore intersects with topics in cultural theory, literature, and history. Assignments will include participation, weekly posts/quizzes, and mid-term and final papers.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19018	RUSSIAN	310	RUSSIAN FAIRY TALE	Extending beyond both Russian and the fairy tale genre alone, this course explores Slavic folklore in two major categories: cultural practice, from magic to social rites and material culture, and lore, from folktales to epic poetry. We survey the folklore of Eastern (Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian), Western (Polish, Czech, Slovak) and South (Bulgarian, Croat, Serb, Macedonian, Slovenian) Slavs. This course offers knowledge of these places of the world while also showing how the study of folklore intersects with topics in cultural theory, literature, and history. Assignments will include participation, weekly posts/quizzes, and mid-term and final papers.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19018	RUSSIAN	310	RUSSIAN FAIRY TALE	Extending beyond both Russian and the fairy tale genre alone, this course explores Slavic folklore in two major categories: cultural practice, from magic to social rites and material culture, and lore, from folktales to epic poetry. We survey the folklore of Eastern (Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian), Western (Polish, Czech, Slovak) and South (Bulgarian, Croat, Serb, Macedonian, Slovenian) Slavs. This course offers knowledge of these places of the world while also showing how the study of folklore intersects with topics in cultural theory, literature, and history. Assignments will include participation, weekly posts/quizzes, and mid-term and final papers.	(CZ) Civilizations
19019	GLHLTH	371	RSRCH METHODS IN GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to research methods through examination of a variety of methodological techniques in behavioral and social sciences and relevant to multidisciplinary GH research. Problem-based approach to practice identifying GH questions of interest, ways to operationalize and test them, including strengths and weaknesses of different approaches. Focus on discussing current GH issues, exploring questions and solutions, reading and evaluating published research and interpreting results. Skills include identification of global health problems, awareness of contextual, behavioral, and ethical issues involved, conceptualization of research questions, and designing a research study.	(R) Research
19019	GLHLTH	371	RSRCH METHODS IN GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to research methods through examination of a variety of methodological techniques in behavioral and social sciences and relevant to multidisciplinary GH research. Problem-based approach to practice identifying GH questions of interest, ways to operationalize and test them, including strengths and weaknesses of different approaches. Focus on discussing current GH issues, exploring questions and solutions, reading and evaluating published research and interpreting results. Skills include identification of global health problems, awareness of contextual, behavioral, and ethical issues involved, conceptualization of research questions, and designing a research study.	(SS) Social Sciences
19019	PSY	309	RSRCH METHODS IN GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to research methods through examination of a variety of methodological techniques in behavioral and social sciences and relevant to multidisciplinary GH research. Problem-based approach to practice identifying GH questions of interest, ways to operationalize and test them, including strengths and weaknesses of different approaches. Focus on discussing current GH issues, exploring questions and solutions, reading and evaluating published research and interpreting results. Skills include identification of global health problems, awareness of contextual, behavioral, and ethical issues involved, conceptualization of research questions, and designing a research study.	(R) Research
19019	PSY	309	RSRCH METHODS IN GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to research methods through examination of a variety of methodological techniques in behavioral and social sciences and relevant to multidisciplinary GH research. Problem-based approach to practice identifying GH questions of interest, ways to operationalize and test them, including strengths and weaknesses of different approaches. Focus on discussing current GH issues, exploring questions and solutions, reading and evaluating published research and interpreting results. Skills include identification of global health problems, awareness of contextual, behavioral, and ethical issues involved, conceptualization of research questions, and designing a research study.	(SS) Social Sciences
19020	POLSCI	 291-2	SOPH/JUN IND STUDY POL INST	Same as Political Science 291-1 except fulfills a political institutions course requirement.	Independent Study
19023	EVANTH	101	INTRO EVOLUTIONARY ANTHRO	The study of human origins, anatomy, and behavior from an evolutionary perspective. The historical development of pre-Darwinian evolutionary thinking and Darwin's contribution to evolutionary theory; genetics; microevolution and macroevolution; the modern synthesis framing the study of human origins and behavior in the context of modern evolutionary biology; primate behavioral ecology and evolution; a survey of primate and human paleontology, adaptation and variation; the origins of human social organization and culture; the impact of modern humans on biodiversity.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19023	EVANTH	101	INTRO EVOLUTIONARY ANTHRO	The study of human origins, anatomy, and behavior from an evolutionary perspective. The historical development of pre-Darwinian evolutionary thinking and Darwin's contribution to evolutionary theory; genetics; microevolution and macroevolution; the modern synthesis framing the study of human origins and behavior in the context of modern evolutionary biology; primate behavioral ecology and evolution; a survey of primate and human paleontology, adaptation and variation; the origins of human social organization and culture; the impact of modern humans on biodiversity.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19026	EVANTH	 101D	INTRO TO EVOLUTIONARY ANTHRO	The study of human origins, anatomy, and behavior from an evolutionary perspective. The historical development of pre-Darwinian evolutionary thinking and Darwin's contribution to evolutionary theory; genetics; microevolution and macroevolution; the modern synthesis framing the study of human origins and behavior in the context of modern evolutionary biology; primate behavioral ecology and evolution; a survey of primate and human paleontology, adaptation and variation; the origins of human social organization and culture; the impact of modern humans on biodiversity. Lecture is the same as Evolutionary Anthropology 101, but adds a 50 minute discussion section with hands-on access to fossil casts, etc.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19026	EVANTH	 101D	INTRO TO EVOLUTIONARY ANTHRO	The study of human origins, anatomy, and behavior from an evolutionary perspective. The historical development of pre-Darwinian evolutionary thinking and Darwin's contribution to evolutionary theory; genetics; microevolution and macroevolution; the modern synthesis framing the study of human origins and behavior in the context of modern evolutionary biology; primate behavioral ecology and evolution; a survey of primate and human paleontology, adaptation and variation; the origins of human social organization and culture; the impact of modern humans on biodiversity. Lecture is the same as Evolutionary Anthropology 101, but adds a 50 minute discussion section with hands-on access to fossil casts, etc.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19037	POLSCI	 493-1	SEN RES IND STUDY POLTHEORY	Individual directed research under the supervision of a faculty member. The central goal is a substantive research paper or report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Offered only in areas of study not otherwise provided in department course offerings and with the direct approval and sponsorship of a faculty member. Will not generally be offered unless student has first established an extensive record of work with the faculty member. Written permission of faculty member and detailed description of research project required before contacting the DUS for permission number. Fulfills a political theory course requirement.	(R) Research
19037	POLSCI	 493-1	SEN RES IND STUDY POLTHEORY	Individual directed research under the supervision of a faculty member. The central goal is a substantive research paper or report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Offered only in areas of study not otherwise provided in department course offerings and with the direct approval and sponsorship of a faculty member. Will not generally be offered unless student has first established an extensive record of work with the faculty member. Written permission of faculty member and detailed description of research project required before contacting the DUS for permission number. Fulfills a political theory course requirement.	Independent Study
19038	POLSCI	 493-2	SEN RES IND STUDY POL INST	Same as Political Science 493-1 excepts fulfills a political institutions course requirement.	(R) Research
19038	POLSCI	 493-2	SEN RES IND STUDY POL INST	Same as Political Science 493-1 excepts fulfills a political institutions course requirement.	Independent Study
19039	POLSCI	 493-3	SEN RES IND STUDY SPC	Same as Political Science 493-1 excepts fulfills a security, peace, and conflict course requirement.	(R) Research
19039	POLSCI	 493-3	SEN RES IND STUDY SPC	Same as Political Science 493-1 excepts fulfills a security, peace, and conflict course requirement.	Independent Study
19040	POLSCI	 493-4	SEN RES IND STUDY B&I	Same as Political Science 493-1 except fulfills a behavior and identities course requirement.	(R) Research
19040	POLSCI	 493-4	SEN RES IND STUDY B&I	Same as Political Science 493-1 except fulfills a behavior and identities course requirement.	Independent Study
19042	BIOLOGY	495	SCIENTIFIC ARGUMENT IN WRITING	Conventions of scientific writing, focusing on the process of writing a thesis or other major research paper in the natural sciences. Course intended for all candidates for Graduation with Distinction in Biology and Physics.	(W) Writing
19053	GLHLTH	362	DISEASE CAUSE & SPREAD: GH EPI	How do we identify the causes and spread of diseases, such as Novel Coronavirus 2019 or Ebola? How do we estimate the effects of poverty, genetics, and other factors, on the risk of non-communicable diseases? Students will learn how to answer these questions, and others, using concepts and methods from the field of epidemiology. Each week we will tackle a distinct global health problem by reading relevant scientific articles. We will then learn methods to study these global health issues, including how to design observational and experimental studies to identify disease risk factors. A prior quantitative course is not required; however, an interest in empirical data analysis is recommended.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
19053	GLHLTH	362	DISEASE CAUSE & SPREAD: GH EPI	How do we identify the causes and spread of diseases, such as Novel Coronavirus 2019 or Ebola? How do we estimate the effects of poverty, genetics, and other factors, on the risk of non-communicable diseases? Students will learn how to answer these questions, and others, using concepts and methods from the field of epidemiology. Each week we will tackle a distinct global health problem by reading relevant scientific articles. We will then learn methods to study these global health issues, including how to design observational and experimental studies to identify disease risk factors. A prior quantitative course is not required; however, an interest in empirical data analysis is recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
19053	GLHLTH	362	DISEASE CAUSE & SPREAD: GH EPI	How do we identify the causes and spread of diseases, such as Novel Coronavirus 2019 or Ebola? How do we estimate the effects of poverty, genetics, and other factors, on the risk of non-communicable diseases? Students will learn how to answer these questions, and others, using concepts and methods from the field of epidemiology. Each week we will tackle a distinct global health problem by reading relevant scientific articles. We will then learn methods to study these global health issues, including how to design observational and experimental studies to identify disease risk factors. A prior quantitative course is not required; however, an interest in empirical data analysis is recommended.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19060	EDUC	 255S	LITERACY, WRITING, TUTORING	Theories of literacy and high school and college level teaching tutoring practices. Composition studies, literacy studies, and writing center/tutoring theories. Includes tutoring students.	(SS) Social Sciences
19060	EDUC	 255S	LITERACY, WRITING, TUTORING	Theories of literacy and high school and college level teaching tutoring practices. Composition studies, literacy studies, and writing center/tutoring theories. Includes tutoring students.	(W) Writing
19060	EDUC	 255S	LITERACY, WRITING, TUTORING	Theories of literacy and high school and college level teaching tutoring practices. Composition studies, literacy studies, and writing center/tutoring theories. Includes tutoring students.	Seminar
19060	WRITING	 255S	LITERACY, WRITING, TUTORING	Theories of literacy and high school and college level teaching tutoring practices. Composition studies, literacy studies, and writing center/tutoring theories. Includes tutoring students.	(SS) Social Sciences
19060	WRITING	 255S	LITERACY, WRITING, TUTORING	Theories of literacy and high school and college level teaching tutoring practices. Composition studies, literacy studies, and writing center/tutoring theories. Includes tutoring students.	(W) Writing
19060	WRITING	 255S	LITERACY, WRITING, TUTORING	Theories of literacy and high school and college level teaching tutoring practices. Composition studies, literacy studies, and writing center/tutoring theories. Includes tutoring students.	Seminar
19069	ETHICS	290	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ETHICS	Topics vary	Topics Course
19142	AAAS	 104S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19142	AAAS	 104S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19142	AAAS	 104S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(SS) Social Sciences
19142	AAAS	 104S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	Seminar
19142	ICS	 106S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19142	ICS	 106S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19142	ICS	 106S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(SS) Social Sciences
19142	ICS	 106S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	Seminar
19142	LIT	 243S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19142	LIT	 243S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19142	LIT	 243S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(SS) Social Sciences
19142	LIT	 243S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	Seminar
19142	LSGS	 201S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19142	LSGS	 201S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19142	LSGS	 201S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(SS) Social Sciences
19142	LSGS	 201S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	Seminar
19142	MUSIC	 231S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19142	MUSIC	 231S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19142	MUSIC	 231S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(SS) Social Sciences
19142	MUSIC	 231S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	Seminar
19142	SPANISH	 160S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19142	SPANISH	 160S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19142	SPANISH	 160S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	(SS) Social Sciences
19142	SPANISH	 160S	INTRO TO LATINO/A STUDIES	Intro to the interdisciplinary field of Latino/a Studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the United States and the Americas. Considers literature, history, sociology, economics, politics, culture and language in examining terms such as: Latino, latinidad, Global South, transnational, globalization, and multiculturalism. Exploration of alignments and divergences of Latino/a Studies with African and African American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, and Critical US Studies. Classroom learning will connect with the community outside of Duke. Required intro course for students in the Latino/a Studies in the Global South certificate program.	Seminar
19178	LATIN	 336S	SATIRE	Readings in Roman Satire with special attention to the genre's self-critical posture and its ethical critique of Roman culture and the Latin literary tradition. Authors might include Lucilius, Horace, Persius, and Juvenal. Students must have two years of Latin or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19178	LATIN	 336S	SATIRE	Readings in Roman Satire with special attention to the genre's self-critical posture and its ethical critique of Roman culture and the Latin literary tradition. Authors might include Lucilius, Horace, Persius, and Juvenal. Students must have two years of Latin or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19178	LATIN	 336S	SATIRE	Readings in Roman Satire with special attention to the genre's self-critical posture and its ethical critique of Roman culture and the Latin literary tradition. Authors might include Lucilius, Horace, Persius, and Juvenal. Students must have two years of Latin or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
19178	LATIN	 336S	SATIRE	Readings in Roman Satire with special attention to the genre's self-critical posture and its ethical critique of Roman culture and the Latin literary tradition. Authors might include Lucilius, Horace, Persius, and Juvenal. Students must have two years of Latin or equivalent.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19178	LATIN	 336S	SATIRE	Readings in Roman Satire with special attention to the genre's self-critical posture and its ethical critique of Roman culture and the Latin literary tradition. Authors might include Lucilius, Horace, Persius, and Juvenal. Students must have two years of Latin or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
19178	LATIN	 336S	SATIRE	Readings in Roman Satire with special attention to the genre's self-critical posture and its ethical critique of Roman culture and the Latin literary tradition. Authors might include Lucilius, Horace, Persius, and Juvenal. Students must have two years of Latin or equivalent.	Seminar
19222	LINGUIST	 216FS	NEUROSCIENCE / HUMAN LANGUAGE	Same as Linguist 216S; open only to students in the Focus Program. Prerequisite: Advanced placement credit in Biology.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19222	LINGUIST	 216FS	NEUROSCIENCE / HUMAN LANGUAGE	Same as Linguist 216S; open only to students in the Focus Program. Prerequisite: Advanced placement credit in Biology.	(SS) Social Sciences
19222	LINGUIST	 216FS	NEUROSCIENCE / HUMAN LANGUAGE	Same as Linguist 216S; open only to students in the Focus Program. Prerequisite: Advanced placement credit in Biology.	Seminar
19222	NEUROSCI	 116FS	NEUROSCIENCE / HUMAN LANGUAGE	Same as Linguist 216S; open only to students in the Focus Program. Prerequisite: Advanced placement credit in Biology.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19222	NEUROSCI	 116FS	NEUROSCIENCE / HUMAN LANGUAGE	Same as Linguist 216S; open only to students in the Focus Program. Prerequisite: Advanced placement credit in Biology.	(SS) Social Sciences
19222	NEUROSCI	 116FS	NEUROSCIENCE / HUMAN LANGUAGE	Same as Linguist 216S; open only to students in the Focus Program. Prerequisite: Advanced placement credit in Biology.	Seminar
19273	SOCIOL	293	RESEARCH IS FOR NON-MAJORS	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified juniors and seniors. Consent of instructor and Director of Markets and Management Studies. Does not count toward the Sociology major.	(R) Research
19273	SOCIOL	293	RESEARCH IS FOR NON-MAJORS	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified juniors and seniors. Consent of instructor and Director of Markets and Management Studies. Does not count toward the Sociology major.	Independent Study
19341	CHEM	  99D	INTRODUCTION TO CHEMISTRY	Introductory course for students with limited background in chemistry emphasizing chemical problem solving. Topics include atoms, molecules, ions, compounds, and the periodic table, stoichiometry and chemical reactions, reactions in solution, and an introduction to chemical bonding, thermochemistry, and gas laws. To be followed by Chemistry 101DL. Not open to students who have credit for Chemistry 20, 21 or 101DL.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19342	CHEM	 101DL	CORE CONCEPTS IN CHEMISTRY	Emphasizes core concepts required for organic chemistry, including atomic and molecular structure, chemical equilibrium with applications to acids and bases, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, and reaction mechanisms. Relevance and integrated nature of these concepts illustrated through applications to a modern theme in chemistry, e.g. in biological, materials, or environmental chemistry. Laboratory illustrates experimental applications of these core concepts. Not open to students who have credit for Chemistry 21.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19342	CHEM	 101DL	CORE CONCEPTS IN CHEMISTRY	Emphasizes core concepts required for organic chemistry, including atomic and molecular structure, chemical equilibrium with applications to acids and bases, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, and reaction mechanisms. Relevance and integrated nature of these concepts illustrated through applications to a modern theme in chemistry, e.g. in biological, materials, or environmental chemistry. Laboratory illustrates experimental applications of these core concepts. Not open to students who have credit for Chemistry 21.	Course has lab
19343	CHEM	 210D	MOD APPS CHEM PRINCIPLES	Modern applications of chemistry in context of larger scientific theme, e.g. in biology, materials science, or environmental chemistry. Revisits core concepts from Chemistry 101DL or 110DL, incorporating additional topics including intermolecular interactions, phases of matter, solutions, quantitative treatment of aqueous equilibria, electron transfer reactions, and inorganic and coordination chemistry. Laboratory illustrates experimental approaches to modern problems in biological, materials, and environmental chemistry, as well as analytical and synthetic techniques. Recommended prerequisite: Chemistry 101DL or 110DL.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19344	CHEM	 110DL	HONORS CHEMISTRY	Emphasizes core concepts required for organic chemistry, including atomic and molecular structure, chemical equilibrium with applications to acids and bases, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, and reaction mechanisms. Strong emphasis on applications of these concepts in context of large, interdisciplinary scientific challenge, e.g. in cancer biology or nanoscience. Laboratory illustrates experimental applications of these core concepts. Students may not receive credit for both Chemistry 101DL and 110DL.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19344	CHEM	 110DL	HONORS CHEMISTRY	Emphasizes core concepts required for organic chemistry, including atomic and molecular structure, chemical equilibrium with applications to acids and bases, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, and reaction mechanisms. Strong emphasis on applications of these concepts in context of large, interdisciplinary scientific challenge, e.g. in cancer biology or nanoscience. Laboratory illustrates experimental applications of these core concepts. Students may not receive credit for both Chemistry 101DL and 110DL.	Course has lab
19367	AAAS	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19367	AAAS	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(NS) Natural Sciences
19367	AAAS	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(SS) Social Sciences
19367	AAAS	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19367	BIOLOGY	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19367	BIOLOGY	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(NS) Natural Sciences
19367	BIOLOGY	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(SS) Social Sciences
19367	BIOLOGY	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19367	CULANTH	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19367	CULANTH	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(NS) Natural Sciences
19367	CULANTH	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(SS) Social Sciences
19367	CULANTH	 261D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19367	GLHLTH	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19367	GLHLTH	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(NS) Natural Sciences
19367	GLHLTH	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(SS) Social Sciences
19367	GLHLTH	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19367	SCISOC	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19367	SCISOC	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(NS) Natural Sciences
19367	SCISOC	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(SS) Social Sciences
19367	SCISOC	 258D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19367	VMS	 274D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19367	VMS	 274D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(NS) Natural Sciences
19367	VMS	 274D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(SS) Social Sciences
19367	VMS	 274D	RACE, GENOMICS, AND SOCIETY	The field of genetics has been at the forefront of discourse concerning the concept of 'race' in humans. This course explores human origins, human variation, human identity, and human health through a broad range of enduring and emerging themes and challenging questions related to race and genetics (and now, genomics) on a global scale. Students will acquire knowledge and skills required for integrative analyses of the relevant scientific, ethical, legal, societal, cultural, and psychosocial issues. Open to students at all levels from any discipline in the arts, humanities, and sciences (natural, social, formal, and applied).	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19370	GSF	 199S	THINKING GENDER	Introduction to foundational concepts in feminist thought on sex and gender. Survey of core concepts in the field of Women's Studies and introduction to the fundamental debates within the history of feminist thinking.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19370	GSF	 199S	THINKING GENDER	Introduction to foundational concepts in feminist thought on sex and gender. Survey of core concepts in the field of Women's Studies and introduction to the fundamental debates within the history of feminist thinking.	(SS) Social Sciences
19370	GSF	 199S	THINKING GENDER	Introduction to foundational concepts in feminist thought on sex and gender. Survey of core concepts in the field of Women's Studies and introduction to the fundamental debates within the history of feminist thinking.	Seminar
19374	HISTORY	117	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19374	HISTORY	117	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(CZ) Civilizations
19374	HISTORY	117	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(SS) Social Sciences
19374	HISTORY	117	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19374	MEDREN	125	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19374	MEDREN	125	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(CZ) Civilizations
19374	MEDREN	125	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(SS) Social Sciences
19374	MEDREN	125	RENAISSANCE & REVOLUTION	A survey of Europe between approx. 1440-1750 that highlights changes in European society including the end of the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the European encounter with other regions of the world.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
19378	ETHICS	 204S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19378	ETHICS	 204S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19378	ETHICS	 204S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	(SS) Social Sciences
19378	ETHICS	 204S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	Seminar
19378	GSF	 367S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19378	GSF	 367S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19378	GSF	 367S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	(SS) Social Sciences
19378	GSF	 367S	FEMINIST ETHICS	Do women experience the world differently than men? An examination of women's experience, women's ways of knowing, ethical systems and feminist critique, patriarchy, dualistic thinking, gender oppression, care ethics, ethical dilemmas.	Seminar
19404	CHEM	 101L9	CORE CONCEPTS IN CHEMISTRY	Lab component for Chemistry 101DL.	Course has a lecture
19404	CHEM	 101L9	CORE CONCEPTS IN CHEMISTRY	Lab component for Chemistry 101DL.	Course has discussion
19406	CHEM	 110L9	HONORS CHEMISTRY	Lab component for Chemistry 110DL.	Course has a lecture
19406	CHEM	 110L9	HONORS CHEMISTRY	Lab component for Chemistry 110DL.	Course has discussion
19417	PHIL	 123FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19417	PHIL	 123FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
19417	PHIL	 123FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
19417	PHIL	 123FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
19417	POLSCI	 175FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19417	POLSCI	 175FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
19417	POLSCI	 175FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
19417	POLSCI	 175FS	FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY	Conflicting visions of freedom and responsibility that characterize the modern world; the possibility of leading ethical lives in the face of conflicting demands that a complex vision of the good engenders. Readings include Luther, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Kant, and Jack London. Course aims to be an intense introduction to Western philosophical ideas of freedom and responsibility. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
19432	ARTSVIS	 242L	INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS	Introduction to interactive graphics programming for artists. Explores object-oriented programming via the Processing programming environment as well as historical and theoretical appreciation of interactivity and computer graphics as artistic media. Combines discussions of key concepts from the readings with hands-on Processing projects and critiques. No previous programming experience or prerequisites required. Enrollment limited to 15 students.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19432	ARTSVIS	 242L	INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS	Introduction to interactive graphics programming for artists. Explores object-oriented programming via the Processing programming environment as well as historical and theoretical appreciation of interactivity and computer graphics as artistic media. Combines discussions of key concepts from the readings with hands-on Processing projects and critiques. No previous programming experience or prerequisites required. Enrollment limited to 15 students.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
19432	ISS	 294L	INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS	Introduction to interactive graphics programming for artists. Explores object-oriented programming via the Processing programming environment as well as historical and theoretical appreciation of interactivity and computer graphics as artistic media. Combines discussions of key concepts from the readings with hands-on Processing projects and critiques. No previous programming experience or prerequisites required. Enrollment limited to 15 students.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19432	ISS	 294L	INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS	Introduction to interactive graphics programming for artists. Explores object-oriented programming via the Processing programming environment as well as historical and theoretical appreciation of interactivity and computer graphics as artistic media. Combines discussions of key concepts from the readings with hands-on Processing projects and critiques. No previous programming experience or prerequisites required. Enrollment limited to 15 students.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
19432	VMS	 397L	INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS	Introduction to interactive graphics programming for artists. Explores object-oriented programming via the Processing programming environment as well as historical and theoretical appreciation of interactivity and computer graphics as artistic media. Combines discussions of key concepts from the readings with hands-on Processing projects and critiques. No previous programming experience or prerequisites required. Enrollment limited to 15 students.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19432	VMS	 397L	INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS	Introduction to interactive graphics programming for artists. Explores object-oriented programming via the Processing programming environment as well as historical and theoretical appreciation of interactivity and computer graphics as artistic media. Combines discussions of key concepts from the readings with hands-on Processing projects and critiques. No previous programming experience or prerequisites required. Enrollment limited to 15 students.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
19468	PORTUGUE	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR PORTUGUESE	Topics vary each semester offered. Prior to the drop/add period, this course is restricted to first-year students who have not fulfilled their seminar requirement.	Seminar
19468	PORTUGUE	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR PORTUGUESE	Topics vary each semester offered. Prior to the drop/add period, this course is restricted to first-year students who have not fulfilled their seminar requirement.	Topics Course
19471	PUBPOL	415	COMMUNITIES OF PRACTICE	Capstone course for students completing community-based research projects through Service Opportunities in Leadership, a signature curricular and experiential learning offering in the Hart Leadership Program. Course involves critical reflection on summer projects, exploration of leadership models that center community-led work and systemic analysis, development and practice of skills for lifelong civic leadership, and interrogation of how individual lives of commitment to the common good are formed and sustained in community with others. Instructor consent required. Students must be members of the SOL program and have completed both PUBPOL 263 and an approved summer project.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19471	PUBPOL	415	COMMUNITIES OF PRACTICE	Capstone course for students completing community-based research projects through Service Opportunities in Leadership, a signature curricular and experiential learning offering in the Hart Leadership Program. Course involves critical reflection on summer projects, exploration of leadership models that center community-led work and systemic analysis, development and practice of skills for lifelong civic leadership, and interrogation of how individual lives of commitment to the common good are formed and sustained in community with others. Instructor consent required. Students must be members of the SOL program and have completed both PUBPOL 263 and an approved summer project.	(R) Research
19471	PUBPOL	415	COMMUNITIES OF PRACTICE	Capstone course for students completing community-based research projects through Service Opportunities in Leadership, a signature curricular and experiential learning offering in the Hart Leadership Program. Course involves critical reflection on summer projects, exploration of leadership models that center community-led work and systemic analysis, development and practice of skills for lifelong civic leadership, and interrogation of how individual lives of commitment to the common good are formed and sustained in community with others. Instructor consent required. Students must be members of the SOL program and have completed both PUBPOL 263 and an approved summer project.	(SS) Social Sciences
19471	PUBPOL	415	COMMUNITIES OF PRACTICE	Capstone course for students completing community-based research projects through Service Opportunities in Leadership, a signature curricular and experiential learning offering in the Hart Leadership Program. Course involves critical reflection on summer projects, exploration of leadership models that center community-led work and systemic analysis, development and practice of skills for lifelong civic leadership, and interrogation of how individual lives of commitment to the common good are formed and sustained in community with others. Instructor consent required. Students must be members of the SOL program and have completed both PUBPOL 263 and an approved summer project.	(W) Writing
19472	MMS	272	MKTG - BORDERS/CULTURES/DEMO	Investigates and discusses theories and techniques used to market to the world's different shoppers and consumers in developing and industrialized economies and countries; gives an understanding of how to target market to shoppers and consumers by varied insights of each target group; Focuses on 'Consumer is Boss' and the understanding of how to influence at 'First Moment of Truth' and at the 'Second Moment of Truth'; will include a team project developing collaboration skills and gaining insight into a specific target group and product; local field trips to engage consumers in homes and where they shop; guest lecturers from Fortune 500 corporations.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19472	MMS	272	MKTG - BORDERS/CULTURES/DEMO	Investigates and discusses theories and techniques used to market to the world's different shoppers and consumers in developing and industrialized economies and countries; gives an understanding of how to target market to shoppers and consumers by varied insights of each target group; Focuses on 'Consumer is Boss' and the understanding of how to influence at 'First Moment of Truth' and at the 'Second Moment of Truth'; will include a team project developing collaboration skills and gaining insight into a specific target group and product; local field trips to engage consumers in homes and where they shop; guest lecturers from Fortune 500 corporations.	(SS) Social Sciences
19514	STA	 110FS	FOCUS PROGRAM - SPECIAL TOPICS	In this course, students will learn about statistical modeling, with primary emphasis on developing critical thinking skills. Topics vary, but we often cover statistical genetics, agent-based modeling, Shannon's theory of communication, game theory, and mathematical models for epidemics. After completing this course, students will be able to design and analyze basic statistical studies, to understand and criticize statistical methods in journals and the media, and to appreciate the power and utility of statistical thinking. Examples and methods are drawn primarily from the behavioral, natural, and social sciences and public policy.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
19514	STA	 110FS	FOCUS PROGRAM - SPECIAL TOPICS	In this course, students will learn about statistical modeling, with primary emphasis on developing critical thinking skills. Topics vary, but we often cover statistical genetics, agent-based modeling, Shannon's theory of communication, game theory, and mathematical models for epidemics. After completing this course, students will be able to design and analyze basic statistical studies, to understand and criticize statistical methods in journals and the media, and to appreciate the power and utility of statistical thinking. Examples and methods are drawn primarily from the behavioral, natural, and social sciences and public policy.	Seminar
19566	BIOLOGY	223	CELL AND MOLEC NEUROBIO	This course will cover the molecular and cellular components underlying nervous system function. Topics include the regulation of the neuronal cytoskeleton, process outgrowth and axon guidance, transport mechanisms, the generation and propagation of the action potential, components of the presynaptic and postsynaptic terminals, growth factors in development and regeneration, neuronal stem cells, and sensory signal transduction. Lectures by the instructor and expert guests, with regular readings of current and/or historical primary literature. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 20, 21, 201L or 203L or equivalent, and Neuroscience 101/Psychology 106 or Neuroscience 102/Psychology 107.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19566	NEUROSCI	223	CELL AND MOLEC NEUROBIO	This course will cover the molecular and cellular components underlying nervous system function. Topics include the regulation of the neuronal cytoskeleton, process outgrowth and axon guidance, transport mechanisms, the generation and propagation of the action potential, components of the presynaptic and postsynaptic terminals, growth factors in development and regeneration, neuronal stem cells, and sensory signal transduction. Lectures by the instructor and expert guests, with regular readings of current and/or historical primary literature. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 20, 21, 201L or 203L or equivalent, and Neuroscience 101/Psychology 106 or Neuroscience 102/Psychology 107.	(NS) Natural Sciences
19581	NEUROSCI	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 2	Second term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students continuing same project as for NEUROSCI 493; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required. May be repeated with new faculty mentor or continued in NEUROSCI 495.	(R) Research
19581	NEUROSCI	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 2	Second term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students continuing same project as for NEUROSCI 493; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required. May be repeated with new faculty mentor or continued in NEUROSCI 495.	Independent Study
19582	NEUROSCI	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 1	First term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students after completion of two NEUROSCI courses; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required. May be repeated with new faculty mentor or continued in NEUROSCI 494.	(R) Research
19582	NEUROSCI	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 1	First term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students after completion of two NEUROSCI courses; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required. May be repeated with new faculty mentor or continued in NEUROSCI 494.	Independent Study
19624	GLHLTH	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY IN GH	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a significant academic product. Open only to qualified juniors and seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies in global health.	Independent Study
19630	GLHLTH	393	RESEARCH IND STUDY IN GH	Individual research-oriented directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a significant academic product. Open only to qualified juniors and seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies in global health.	(R) Research
19630	GLHLTH	393	RESEARCH IND STUDY IN GH	Individual research-oriented directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a significant academic product. Open only to qualified juniors and seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies in global health.	Independent Study
19651	ARTSVIS	 248S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19651	ARTSVIS	 248S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	Seminar
19651	CINE	 355S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19651	CINE	 355S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	Seminar
19651	DOCST	 281S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19651	DOCST	 281S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	Seminar
19651	VMS	 260S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19651	VMS	 260S	CINEMATOGRAPHY	In-depth investigation of cinematographic techniques and principles for motion picture production. Exercises in both film and high definition digital video. Emphasis on advanced lighting techniques, lensing, camera mobility, set operations and close analysis of master works of cinematography.	Seminar
19719	ISS	493	ISS RESEARCH IND STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of both the instructor and director of graduate studies is required.	(R) Research
19719	ISS	493	ISS RESEARCH IND STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of both the instructor and director of graduate studies is required.	Independent Study
19720	ISS	293	ISS RESEARCH IND STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of both the instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
19720	ISS	293	ISS RESEARCH IND STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of both the instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
19721	ISS	491	ISS INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of both the instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
19733	AAAS	314	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19733	AAAS	314	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19733	AAAS	314	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19733	AAAS	314	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(SS) Social Sciences
19733	VMS	254	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
19733	VMS	254	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
19733	VMS	254	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
19733	VMS	254	REPRESENTING SLAVERY	Examines representations of the Atlantic slave trade in scholarship, literature, film, popular culture, and local site visits. We will examine portrayals of people who were enslaved, people who enslaved, as well as the nature of capture, the Middle Passage, and plantation life. We will also explore contemporary commemorations of the slave trade within museums, and the political mobilization of this history within the reparations movement. Through an examination of these materials, we will ask 'why represent slavery?' and 'what is at stake when representing slavery?'	(SS) Social Sciences
19741	NEUROSCI	150	RESEARCH PRACTICUM	Introduction to faculty-directed research, often preparing the student for independent study. Preliminary research activities include readings, regular research discussions, and, for some, data collection and analysis, as a means to explore the potential for the more formally planned and intensive Research Independent Study and the greater level of commitment required; does not obligate student or faculty to subsequent Research Independent Study. Instructor consent required. Satisfactory/unsatisfactory grading only.	Independent Study
19763	SES	490	SPECIAL TOP IN SLAVIC AND EURA	Subject varies from semester to semester.	Topics Course
19942	PHYSICS	 141D	GENERAL PHYSICS I (DIS)	Recitation component for Physics 141L.	Course has a lecture
20020	ECON	119	INTRO TO POLITICAL ECONOMY	Introduction to history of political economy. Three components: (1) history of economic thought as outgrowth of moral philosophy; (2) microeconomics and price theory; (3) macroeconomics and monetary policy. Intended as an economics course for non-majors. No prerequisite except high school mathematics. Does not count toward Economics major or minor.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20020	ECON	119	INTRO TO POLITICAL ECONOMY	Introduction to history of political economy. Three components: (1) history of economic thought as outgrowth of moral philosophy; (2) microeconomics and price theory; (3) macroeconomics and monetary policy. Intended as an economics course for non-majors. No prerequisite except high school mathematics. Does not count toward Economics major or minor.	(SS) Social Sciences
20020	POLSCI	145	INTRO TO POLITICAL ECONOMY	Introduction to history of political economy. Three components: (1) history of economic thought as outgrowth of moral philosophy; (2) microeconomics and price theory; (3) macroeconomics and monetary policy. Intended as an economics course for non-majors. No prerequisite except high school mathematics. Does not count toward Economics major or minor.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20020	POLSCI	145	INTRO TO POLITICAL ECONOMY	Introduction to history of political economy. Three components: (1) history of economic thought as outgrowth of moral philosophy; (2) microeconomics and price theory; (3) macroeconomics and monetary policy. Intended as an economics course for non-majors. No prerequisite except high school mathematics. Does not count toward Economics major or minor.	(SS) Social Sciences
20037	BIOLOGY	 201L	MOLECULAR BIOLOGY	Introduces major concepts in biology through the lens of molecular biology. Molecular mechanisms that comprise the Central Dogma and variants. DNA structure and function, replication, transcription, and translation. Protein synthesis, folding, structure and function. Supporting topics related to the structure of cells, metabolism and energetics. Integration of physical and quantitative principles to molecular biology. Relevance to human diseases and the biotechnology industry. Laboratory includes an introduction to recombinant DNA technology. Prerequisite: Chemistry 21, 21L, 101DL, 110DL, or 201DL. Not open to students who have taken or are currently enrolled in Biology 201, 201D or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20037	BIOLOGY	 201L	MOLECULAR BIOLOGY	Introduces major concepts in biology through the lens of molecular biology. Molecular mechanisms that comprise the Central Dogma and variants. DNA structure and function, replication, transcription, and translation. Protein synthesis, folding, structure and function. Supporting topics related to the structure of cells, metabolism and energetics. Integration of physical and quantitative principles to molecular biology. Relevance to human diseases and the biotechnology industry. Laboratory includes an introduction to recombinant DNA technology. Prerequisite: Chemistry 21, 21L, 101DL, 110DL, or 201DL. Not open to students who have taken or are currently enrolled in Biology 201, 201D or 203L.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
20039	EVANTH	 337L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROANATOMY	Functional anatomy of the human brain and spinal cord with team-based learning approaches and laboratory-based discovery. Hands-on examination of human specimens with guided explorations of external and internal brain structures and dissections to facilitate discovery. Extensive use of interactive digital media to explore CNS anatomy and the organization of the major neural systems underlying sensory, motor and cognitive function. Analysis of actual clinical cases representing a variety of neurological disorders. Consideration of brain evolution and comparative neuroanatomy. Prior completion of Neuroscience 101/102 or 201 or Evolutionary Anthropology 101 highly recommended.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20039	EVANTH	 337L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROANATOMY	Functional anatomy of the human brain and spinal cord with team-based learning approaches and laboratory-based discovery. Hands-on examination of human specimens with guided explorations of external and internal brain structures and dissections to facilitate discovery. Extensive use of interactive digital media to explore CNS anatomy and the organization of the major neural systems underlying sensory, motor and cognitive function. Analysis of actual clinical cases representing a variety of neurological disorders. Consideration of brain evolution and comparative neuroanatomy. Prior completion of Neuroscience 101/102 or 201 or Evolutionary Anthropology 101 highly recommended.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
20039	NEUROSCI	 380L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROANATOMY	Functional anatomy of the human brain and spinal cord with team-based learning approaches and laboratory-based discovery. Hands-on examination of human specimens with guided explorations of external and internal brain structures and dissections to facilitate discovery. Extensive use of interactive digital media to explore CNS anatomy and the organization of the major neural systems underlying sensory, motor and cognitive function. Analysis of actual clinical cases representing a variety of neurological disorders. Consideration of brain evolution and comparative neuroanatomy. Prior completion of Neuroscience 101/102 or 201 or Evolutionary Anthropology 101 highly recommended.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20039	NEUROSCI	 380L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROANATOMY	Functional anatomy of the human brain and spinal cord with team-based learning approaches and laboratory-based discovery. Hands-on examination of human specimens with guided explorations of external and internal brain structures and dissections to facilitate discovery. Extensive use of interactive digital media to explore CNS anatomy and the organization of the major neural systems underlying sensory, motor and cognitive function. Analysis of actual clinical cases representing a variety of neurological disorders. Consideration of brain evolution and comparative neuroanatomy. Prior completion of Neuroscience 101/102 or 201 or Evolutionary Anthropology 101 highly recommended.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
20039	PSY	 375L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROANATOMY	Functional anatomy of the human brain and spinal cord with team-based learning approaches and laboratory-based discovery. Hands-on examination of human specimens with guided explorations of external and internal brain structures and dissections to facilitate discovery. Extensive use of interactive digital media to explore CNS anatomy and the organization of the major neural systems underlying sensory, motor and cognitive function. Analysis of actual clinical cases representing a variety of neurological disorders. Consideration of brain evolution and comparative neuroanatomy. Prior completion of Neuroscience 101/102 or 201 or Evolutionary Anthropology 101 highly recommended.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20039	PSY	 375L	FUNCTIONAL NEUROANATOMY	Functional anatomy of the human brain and spinal cord with team-based learning approaches and laboratory-based discovery. Hands-on examination of human specimens with guided explorations of external and internal brain structures and dissections to facilitate discovery. Extensive use of interactive digital media to explore CNS anatomy and the organization of the major neural systems underlying sensory, motor and cognitive function. Analysis of actual clinical cases representing a variety of neurological disorders. Consideration of brain evolution and comparative neuroanatomy. Prior completion of Neuroscience 101/102 or 201 or Evolutionary Anthropology 101 highly recommended.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
20042	ECON	372	ASSET PRICING & RISK MGMT	Integrates micro and macro economics with topics in finance. Utility maximization within mean variance framework for portfolio analysis and capital asset pricing model. Corporate valuation and discounted cash flow analysis. Capital structure and principal-agent problem will lead into a discussion of the Efficient Markets Hypothesis and underlying assumptions. Market pricing, forecasting, and financial crises. Prerequisite: Economics 101D (or Economics 21 and 22); and Economics 104D or Statistical Science 111L, 130L, 210L, 230, or 250D, or BME 244L; and Economics 205D or Mathematics 202D, 212, 216, 219, or 222.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
20042	ECON	372	ASSET PRICING & RISK MGMT	Integrates micro and macro economics with topics in finance. Utility maximization within mean variance framework for portfolio analysis and capital asset pricing model. Corporate valuation and discounted cash flow analysis. Capital structure and principal-agent problem will lead into a discussion of the Efficient Markets Hypothesis and underlying assumptions. Market pricing, forecasting, and financial crises. Prerequisite: Economics 101D (or Economics 21 and 22); and Economics 104D or Statistical Science 111L, 130L, 210L, 230, or 250D, or BME 244L; and Economics 205D or Mathematics 202D, 212, 216, 219, or 222.	(SS) Social Sciences
20075	NEUROSCI	373	BEHAVIORAL NEUROIMMUNOLOGY	An exploration of the interactions among the nervous, immune, and endocrine systems, and their consequences for neural function and behavior, using examples from both the human and animal literatures. Topics include the role of the immune system in cognition and emotions, neuroendocrine-immune interactions during stress, and the effects of stress on health and disease. The potential role of infections in the etiology of psychopathology (autism, schizophrenia) and neurodegenerative conditions (Parkinson's, Alzheimer's) will also be discussed. Recommended prerequisite: one of the following: Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101, Psychology 275/Biology 224/Neuroscience 201, Biology 101L, or equivalent.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20075	PSY	373	BEHAVIORAL NEUROIMMUNOLOGY	An exploration of the interactions among the nervous, immune, and endocrine systems, and their consequences for neural function and behavior, using examples from both the human and animal literatures. Topics include the role of the immune system in cognition and emotions, neuroendocrine-immune interactions during stress, and the effects of stress on health and disease. The potential role of infections in the etiology of psychopathology (autism, schizophrenia) and neurodegenerative conditions (Parkinson's, Alzheimer's) will also be discussed. Recommended prerequisite: one of the following: Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101, Psychology 275/Biology 224/Neuroscience 201, Biology 101L, or equivalent.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20123	MUSIC	 105-6	JAZZ SAXOPHONE	Weekly, 30-minute individual private instruction for undergraduate students of varying levels. Ability beyond the beginner stage is required. There is a fee associated with lessons for non-declared music majors. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20132	HISTORY	275	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20132	HISTORY	275	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
20132	HISTORY	275	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(SS) Social Sciences
20132	RUSSIAN	356	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20132	RUSSIAN	356	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
20132	RUSSIAN	356	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(SS) Social Sciences
20132	SES	356	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20132	SES	356	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
20132	SES	356	THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE	Russian imperial history from Peter the Great to Bolshevik Revolution: 1700-1917. Focus on formation and governance of multiethnic and multiconfessional Russian empire. Traces expansion of land-locked city state (Muscovy) into world power ruling from Eastern Europe to Alaska. Questions implications of Russia's world-power status. Examines institutions of governance that created this empire and held its various ethnic, religious and ideological groups together for centuries. Readings of English translations of works of Russian literature and historiographic analyses aimed at developing a sound grounding in Russian imperial history and culture.	(SS) Social Sciences
20135	ETHICS	 129FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20135	ETHICS	 129FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(SS) Social Sciences
20135	ETHICS	 129FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	Seminar
20135	ICS	 128FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20135	ICS	 128FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(SS) Social Sciences
20135	ICS	 128FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	Seminar
20135	POLSCI	 176FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20135	POLSCI	 176FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(SS) Social Sciences
20135	POLSCI	 176FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	Seminar
20135	PUBPOL	 181FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20135	PUBPOL	 181FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	(SS) Social Sciences
20135	PUBPOL	 181FS	HUMAN RIGHTS & WORLD POLITICS	Examines the role of human rights and global justice in world politics. We will consider questions such as whether human rights are universal, what role human rights and global justice should be play in U.S. foreign policy, which strategies are most effective in promoting human rights and global justice, and which risk inciting backlash. The course will cover topics including civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.	Seminar
20138	VMS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR	Topics vary. Open only to first-year students.	Seminar
20138	VMS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR	Topics vary. Open only to first-year students.	Topics Course
20207	ETHICS	 190FS	SP TOP IN ETHICS (FOCUS)	Topics vary. Open only to students in the Focus program. Topics course. Department consent required.	Seminar
20207	ETHICS	 190FS	SP TOP IN ETHICS (FOCUS)	Topics vary. Open only to students in the Focus program. Topics course. Department consent required.	Topics Course
20209	HISTORY	 457S	CAP SEM: MAROON SOCIETIES	Origins and development of fugitive slave communities throughout the Americas from the sixteenth to the nineteenth century. Major focus is on their role in the operation of slave society.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20209	HISTORY	 457S	CAP SEM: MAROON SOCIETIES	Origins and development of fugitive slave communities throughout the Americas from the sixteenth to the nineteenth century. Major focus is on their role in the operation of slave society.	(CZ) Civilizations
20209	HISTORY	 457S	CAP SEM: MAROON SOCIETIES	Origins and development of fugitive slave communities throughout the Americas from the sixteenth to the nineteenth century. Major focus is on their role in the operation of slave society.	(R) Research
20209	HISTORY	 457S	CAP SEM: MAROON SOCIETIES	Origins and development of fugitive slave communities throughout the Americas from the sixteenth to the nineteenth century. Major focus is on their role in the operation of slave society.	Seminar
20222	AAAS	 225S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20222	AAAS	 225S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20222	AAAS	 225S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CZ) Civilizations
20222	AAAS	 225S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	Seminar
20222	CULANTH	 262S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20222	CULANTH	 262S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20222	CULANTH	 262S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CZ) Civilizations
20222	CULANTH	 262S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	Seminar
20222	DOCST	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20222	DOCST	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20222	DOCST	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CZ) Civilizations
20222	DOCST	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	Seminar
20222	PUBPOL	 387S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20222	PUBPOL	 387S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20222	PUBPOL	 387S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CZ) Civilizations
20222	PUBPOL	 387S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	Seminar
20222	RIGHTS	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20222	RIGHTS	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20222	RIGHTS	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	(CZ) Civilizations
20222	RIGHTS	 350S	DOCUMENTING BLACK EXPERIENCES	Explores how Black experiences have been documented and how crucial stories woven from real life get told. Students engage wide ranging contemporary and historical materials, including nonfiction, memoir, fiction, documentary and dramatic film, theater, poetry and music. Our aspirations are historical, but with an understanding that academic history, though irreplaceable, barely touches the range of storytelling that makes Black lives not only matter but transform the spaces in which they unfold. Our explorations are political, but in the largest sensehow Black power comes from making higher truth a tool, a weapon and a way of being.	Seminar
20225	ARTSVIS	 356S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20225	ARTSVIS	 356S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	Seminar
20225	CINE	 356S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20225	CINE	 356S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	Seminar
20225	DOCST	 357S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20225	DOCST	 357S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	Seminar
20225	VMS	 362S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20225	VMS	 362S	16MM FILM PRODUCTION	Hands-on experience with 16mm motion picture film and photography. In-depth exploration of the techniques and aesthetics of film production, including basic screen writing, lighting, storytelling, and editing.	Seminar
20226	CINE	 357S	EDITING FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of film and video editing techniques. Exploration of traditional film cutting as well as digital non-linear editing. Exercises in narrative, documentary and experimental approaches to structuring moving image materials.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20226	CINE	 357S	EDITING FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of film and video editing techniques. Exploration of traditional film cutting as well as digital non-linear editing. Exercises in narrative, documentary and experimental approaches to structuring moving image materials.	Seminar
20226	DOCST	 288S	EDITING FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of film and video editing techniques. Exploration of traditional film cutting as well as digital non-linear editing. Exercises in narrative, documentary and experimental approaches to structuring moving image materials.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20226	DOCST	 288S	EDITING FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of film and video editing techniques. Exploration of traditional film cutting as well as digital non-linear editing. Exercises in narrative, documentary and experimental approaches to structuring moving image materials.	Seminar
20226	VMS	 356S	EDITING FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of film and video editing techniques. Exploration of traditional film cutting as well as digital non-linear editing. Exercises in narrative, documentary and experimental approaches to structuring moving image materials.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20226	VMS	 356S	EDITING FOR FILM AND VIDEO	Theory and practice of film and video editing techniques. Exploration of traditional film cutting as well as digital non-linear editing. Exercises in narrative, documentary and experimental approaches to structuring moving image materials.	Seminar
20278	CULANTH	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20278	CULANTH	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CZ) Civilizations
20278	CULANTH	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20278	CULANTH	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(SS) Social Sciences
20278	ICS	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20278	ICS	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CZ) Civilizations
20278	ICS	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20278	ICS	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(SS) Social Sciences
20278	PUBPOL	223	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20278	PUBPOL	223	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CZ) Civilizations
20278	PUBPOL	223	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20278	PUBPOL	223	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(SS) Social Sciences
20278	RUSSIAN	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20278	RUSSIAN	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(CZ) Civilizations
20278	RUSSIAN	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20278	RUSSIAN	399	GLOBAL RUSSIA	This course will examine the process of globalization of Russian culture and institutions as manifested in political, economic, and legal institutions; religion; education; popular and academic cultural forms, including media and artistic texts, film, theatre and television; diplomacy; reproductive rights; health care; the role of censorship; views of citizenship, patriotism, and sport. We will evaluate the ethical issues, potential shift of cultural values, and their impact on 21st century Russian institutions.	(SS) Social Sciences
20350	EGR	  95FS	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR IN FOCUS	Topics vary each semester offered.  Focus students only.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20350	EGR	  95FS	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR IN FOCUS	Topics vary each semester offered.  Focus students only.	(SS) Social Sciences
20350	EGR	  95FS	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR IN FOCUS	Topics vary each semester offered.  Focus students only.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
20350	EGR	  95FS	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR IN FOCUS	Topics vary each semester offered.  Focus students only.	Seminar
20389	ETHICS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ETHICS	Topics vary by semester. Seminar version of Ethics 290.	Seminar
20389	ETHICS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ETHICS	Topics vary by semester. Seminar version of Ethics 290.	Topics Course
20404	ROMST	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual study in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies required. In English.	Independent Study
20407	GLHLTH	 391-1	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic product. Open only to qualified students by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies in global health.	Independent Study
20445	ENGLISH	254	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20445	ENGLISH	254	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20445	ENGLISH	254	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CZ) Civilizations
20445	ENGLISH	254	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20445	GSF	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20445	GSF	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20445	GSF	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CZ) Civilizations
20445	GSF	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20445	HISTORY	244	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20445	HISTORY	244	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20445	HISTORY	244	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CZ) Civilizations
20445	HISTORY	244	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20445	MEDREN	354	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20445	MEDREN	354	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20445	MEDREN	354	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CZ) Civilizations
20445	MEDREN	354	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20445	RELIGION	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20445	RELIGION	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20445	RELIGION	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(CZ) Civilizations
20445	RELIGION	261	HISTORY TO FANTASY: RELIGIONS	Explores the intersection of modern popular culture and medieval religious culture. Deep dive into how modern creators of mass entertainment use common notions of medieval faith, power, race, sexualities and violence to capture and hold our interest, teach us lessons about ourselves, and sell products. How do our ideas of faith, sexuality, race and power inspire or constrain the fiction we create about the past? What impact does this have on consumers? Monks, nuns, knights, crusades, secret societies, suffragists, alt-right, plague. Modern novels, commentaries, history, medieval texts, neurobiology, TV, films, ads, games, memes, clubs. Read, discuss, write, research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20457	EVANTH	330	HUMAN EVOLUTIONARY PHYSIOLOGY	In this course we investigate human physiology using a systems-based and evolutionary approach. The primary course objective is to understand how the human body functions and how evolution has shaped our physiology. We also examine how our physiology responds to local environments (diet, climate, stress, etc.) in ways that affect our health and contribute to human diversity. For each system (cardiopulmonary, immune, nervous, digestive, reproductive, musculoskeletal, etc.) we examine the anatomy involved and its integrated physiological functioning. Recommended prerequisite: Evolutionary Anthropology 101 or introductory biology.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20486	ECON	462	BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS	Introduction to the insights gained from incorporating psychology into economic modeling. Based exclusively on original, often recent, scientific publications. Focus on empirical evidence, theoretical models and economic implications. Equilibrium analysis is essential analytical tool. Participants will each give a presentation of a scientific paper from the reading list. This course will build on mathematics covered in Mathematics 202/212/222. Prerequisite: Economics 205D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
20486	ECON	462	BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS	Introduction to the insights gained from incorporating psychology into economic modeling. Based exclusively on original, often recent, scientific publications. Focus on empirical evidence, theoretical models and economic implications. Equilibrium analysis is essential analytical tool. Participants will each give a presentation of a scientific paper from the reading list. This course will build on mathematics covered in Mathematics 202/212/222. Prerequisite: Economics 205D.	(SS) Social Sciences
20486	HLTHPOL	462	BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS	Introduction to the insights gained from incorporating psychology into economic modeling. Based exclusively on original, often recent, scientific publications. Focus on empirical evidence, theoretical models and economic implications. Equilibrium analysis is essential analytical tool. Participants will each give a presentation of a scientific paper from the reading list. This course will build on mathematics covered in Mathematics 202/212/222. Prerequisite: Economics 205D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
20486	HLTHPOL	462	BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS	Introduction to the insights gained from incorporating psychology into economic modeling. Based exclusively on original, often recent, scientific publications. Focus on empirical evidence, theoretical models and economic implications. Equilibrium analysis is essential analytical tool. Participants will each give a presentation of a scientific paper from the reading list. This course will build on mathematics covered in Mathematics 202/212/222. Prerequisite: Economics 205D.	(SS) Social Sciences
20486	PSY	463	BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS	Introduction to the insights gained from incorporating psychology into economic modeling. Based exclusively on original, often recent, scientific publications. Focus on empirical evidence, theoretical models and economic implications. Equilibrium analysis is essential analytical tool. Participants will each give a presentation of a scientific paper from the reading list. This course will build on mathematics covered in Mathematics 202/212/222. Prerequisite: Economics 205D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
20486	PSY	463	BEHAVIORAL ECONOMICS	Introduction to the insights gained from incorporating psychology into economic modeling. Based exclusively on original, often recent, scientific publications. Focus on empirical evidence, theoretical models and economic implications. Equilibrium analysis is essential analytical tool. Participants will each give a presentation of a scientific paper from the reading list. This course will build on mathematics covered in Mathematics 202/212/222. Prerequisite: Economics 205D.	(SS) Social Sciences
20495	NEUROSCI	277	INSIDE THE DISORDERED BRAIN	What brain circuits give rise to the dazzling diversity of human behavior, and how do even subtle disturbances within these circuits lead to abnormal behavior or psychopathology? This course provides students with a working knowledge of the brain circuits that create order in our social, emotional and cognitive worlds, and how disorder within these circuits leads to a broad range of psychopathology including depression, anxiety, phobias, PTSD, OCD, addiction, autism, schizophrenia, psychopathy and violence. Prerequisite: Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101 or Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20495	PSY	277	INSIDE THE DISORDERED BRAIN	What brain circuits give rise to the dazzling diversity of human behavior, and how do even subtle disturbances within these circuits lead to abnormal behavior or psychopathology? This course provides students with a working knowledge of the brain circuits that create order in our social, emotional and cognitive worlds, and how disorder within these circuits leads to a broad range of psychopathology including depression, anxiety, phobias, PTSD, OCD, addiction, autism, schizophrenia, psychopathy and violence. Prerequisite: Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101 or Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20501	ECON	338	ECON OF THE PUB SEC	Applies tools of intermediate micro economics to the public sector. Develops economic justifications for government intervention into the economy and examines and evaluates various government policies and programs including regulation of externalities, welfare programs, social security and other social insurance programs. Provides a solid foundation for applied benefit cost analysis. Analyzes tax policy and other forms of government financing, both at national and subnational levels. Prerequisites: Public Policy 303D or Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
20501	PUBPOL	304	ECON OF THE PUB SEC	Applies tools of intermediate micro economics to the public sector. Develops economic justifications for government intervention into the economy and examines and evaluates various government policies and programs including regulation of externalities, welfare programs, social security and other social insurance programs. Provides a solid foundation for applied benefit cost analysis. Analyzes tax policy and other forms of government financing, both at national and subnational levels. Prerequisites: Public Policy 303D or Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
20504	CULANTH	212	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20504	CULANTH	212	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(SS) Social Sciences
20504	ENGLISH	395	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20504	ENGLISH	395	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(SS) Social Sciences
20504	ICS	395	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20504	ICS	395	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(SS) Social Sciences
20504	LINGUIST	451	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20504	LINGUIST	451	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(SS) Social Sciences
20504	RIGHTS	395	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20504	RIGHTS	395	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(SS) Social Sciences
20504	SES	385	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20504	SES	385	LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY	Course examines language as a social practice, focusing on different aspects of its role in social life. Topics addressed include: language and social identity, such as ethnicity, social class, age, and gender; variation in language, including dialects, accents, and registers; multilingualism and language contact; new languages such as pidgins and creoles; language, culture, and intercultural communication; language and ideology; language in education and in the media. Through the discussion of these topics and homework including reading and small research projects, students are introduced to key concepts, theories, and methods in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.	(SS) Social Sciences
20586	ECON	371	LABOR AND FAMILY ECONOMICS	Examines decisions made by individuals as members of families - education, occupation, work, change of jobs, use of home time, consumption, having children, investment in their health and human capital, etc. Also, decisions to cohabit/break up, marry/divorce/remarry, leave the parental nest, etc. Understanding phenomena ranging from which high school couples have sex - to the stability of gay marriage - to domestic violence - to the impact of Covid-19 on the current and future labor force participation of women - are all enhanced by accounting for the multiplicity of both conflicting and complementary interests of individuals in families. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and either 204D or 208D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
20586	ECON	371	LABOR AND FAMILY ECONOMICS	Examines decisions made by individuals as members of families - education, occupation, work, change of jobs, use of home time, consumption, having children, investment in their health and human capital, etc. Also, decisions to cohabit/break up, marry/divorce/remarry, leave the parental nest, etc. Understanding phenomena ranging from which high school couples have sex - to the stability of gay marriage - to domestic violence - to the impact of Covid-19 on the current and future labor force participation of women - are all enhanced by accounting for the multiplicity of both conflicting and complementary interests of individuals in families. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and either 204D or 208D.	(R) Research
20586	ECON	371	LABOR AND FAMILY ECONOMICS	Examines decisions made by individuals as members of families - education, occupation, work, change of jobs, use of home time, consumption, having children, investment in their health and human capital, etc. Also, decisions to cohabit/break up, marry/divorce/remarry, leave the parental nest, etc. Understanding phenomena ranging from which high school couples have sex - to the stability of gay marriage - to domestic violence - to the impact of Covid-19 on the current and future labor force participation of women - are all enhanced by accounting for the multiplicity of both conflicting and complementary interests of individuals in families. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and either 204D or 208D.	(SS) Social Sciences
20589	ECON	378	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT	Identifying, measuring, and dealing with risk factors faced by firms in increasingly complex financial system. Course examines major types of financial risks faced by firms and introduces models for measuring, and frameworks for managing risk, and the main tools used in financial risk management, with application to real-world examples and case studies. Assessment of models, tools and frameworks for managing various risks. Attention given to role of public policy in shaping practice of risk management. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
20589	ECON	378	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT	Identifying, measuring, and dealing with risk factors faced by firms in increasingly complex financial system. Course examines major types of financial risks faced by firms and introduces models for measuring, and frameworks for managing risk, and the main tools used in financial risk management, with application to real-world examples and case studies. Assessment of models, tools and frameworks for managing various risks. Attention given to role of public policy in shaping practice of risk management. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D.	(SS) Social Sciences
20601	MUSIC	145	HIP-HOP/RAP MUSIC APPRECIATION	This course explores the development of Hip-Hop and Rap music from an inner-city expression of music into a worldwide social and cultural movement. Rap, considered popular music at the beginning of the 21st century, has a huge influence on mainstream culture. Students will have a unique opportunity to develop and/or enhance their knowledge and comprehension of this popular and influential genre.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20607	AMES	 157S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20607	AMES	 157S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
20607	AMES	 157S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20607	AMES	 157S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(SS) Social Sciences
20607	AMES	 157S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(W) Writing
20607	AMES	 157S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	Seminar
20607	CULANTH	 215S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20607	CULANTH	 215S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
20607	CULANTH	 215S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20607	CULANTH	 215S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(SS) Social Sciences
20607	CULANTH	 215S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(W) Writing
20607	CULANTH	 215S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	Seminar
20607	HISTORY	 219S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20607	HISTORY	 219S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
20607	HISTORY	 219S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20607	HISTORY	 219S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(SS) Social Sciences
20607	HISTORY	 219S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	(W) Writing
20607	HISTORY	 219S	INDIAN CIVILIZATION	Surveys the rise of civilization and kingdoms on the Indian subcontinent from the first urban centers of the Indus Valley through the establishment of the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Uses literary, archeological, linguistic, ethnological, and inscriptional evidence on the diversity of Indic peoples and their complex social, religious, and caste integration into the major states and empires of pre-modern India; considers wider civilizational networks and extensions of the Indian cultural sphere into other parts of Asia; integrates a historical and anthropological perspective on various primary materials.	Seminar
20625	ISS	 395T	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to explore the evolution of society and culture through the lens of information, using the latest computational methods to address pressing problems in new and creative ways. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
20625	ISS	 395T	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to explore the evolution of society and culture through the lens of information, using the latest computational methods to address pressing problems in new and creative ways. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation.	Tutorial
20752	BIOLOGY	 452S	GENES & DEVELOPMENT	Literature-based seminar covering transcriptional regulation of development. Regulatory mechanisms and genome-wide approaches will be covered. Topics: embryogenesis, stem cells, transcription factors, regulatory networks, chromatin, nuclear organization, small RNAs, imprinting and Pol II pausing. Prerequisite: Biology 201L and 202L, or Biology 203L. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 220 or 221D.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20752	BIOLOGY	 452S	GENES & DEVELOPMENT	Literature-based seminar covering transcriptional regulation of development. Regulatory mechanisms and genome-wide approaches will be covered. Topics: embryogenesis, stem cells, transcription factors, regulatory networks, chromatin, nuclear organization, small RNAs, imprinting and Pol II pausing. Prerequisite: Biology 201L and 202L, or Biology 203L. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 220 or 221D.	Seminar
20753	BIOLOGY	 427S	SENSORY BIOLOGY	Exploration of recent and classic studies in sensory biology. Actual topics are chosen by students at the start of the semester. Usually includes vision, hearing, smell, taste, pheromones, electroreception, magnetoreception, bioluminescence, touch, time, and music. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, or 201L and 202L, or 203L or the equivalent, and one course in Neuroscience, or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20753	BIOLOGY	 427S	SENSORY BIOLOGY	Exploration of recent and classic studies in sensory biology. Actual topics are chosen by students at the start of the semester. Usually includes vision, hearing, smell, taste, pheromones, electroreception, magnetoreception, bioluminescence, touch, time, and music. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, or 201L and 202L, or 203L or the equivalent, and one course in Neuroscience, or consent of instructor.	Seminar
20753	NEUROSCI	 427S	SENSORY BIOLOGY	Exploration of recent and classic studies in sensory biology. Actual topics are chosen by students at the start of the semester. Usually includes vision, hearing, smell, taste, pheromones, electroreception, magnetoreception, bioluminescence, touch, time, and music. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, or 201L and 202L, or 203L or the equivalent, and one course in Neuroscience, or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20753	NEUROSCI	 427S	SENSORY BIOLOGY	Exploration of recent and classic studies in sensory biology. Actual topics are chosen by students at the start of the semester. Usually includes vision, hearing, smell, taste, pheromones, electroreception, magnetoreception, bioluminescence, touch, time, and music. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, or 201L and 202L, or 203L or the equivalent, and one course in Neuroscience, or consent of instructor.	Seminar
20753	PSY	 427S	SENSORY BIOLOGY	Exploration of recent and classic studies in sensory biology. Actual topics are chosen by students at the start of the semester. Usually includes vision, hearing, smell, taste, pheromones, electroreception, magnetoreception, bioluminescence, touch, time, and music. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, or 201L and 202L, or 203L or the equivalent, and one course in Neuroscience, or consent of instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20753	PSY	 427S	SENSORY BIOLOGY	Exploration of recent and classic studies in sensory biology. Actual topics are chosen by students at the start of the semester. Usually includes vision, hearing, smell, taste, pheromones, electroreception, magnetoreception, bioluminescence, touch, time, and music. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L, or 201L and 202L, or 203L or the equivalent, and one course in Neuroscience, or consent of instructor.	Seminar
20760	RELIGION	 350S	NON-CANONICAL GOSPELS	Historical-critical study of early non-canonical Christian Gospels, with special reference to the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Peter, the Protevangelium of James, the Infancy Gospel of Thomas, Papyrus Egerton 2, Gospel of Mary, Gospel of Judas, Gospel of Philip, Dialogue of the Savior and Secret Mark; their relationship to other early Christian texts, their view of Jesus, their place in early Christianity; questions of authority, canon, canonical-bias, and concepts of heresy and orthodoxy.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
20760	RELIGION	 350S	NON-CANONICAL GOSPELS	Historical-critical study of early non-canonical Christian Gospels, with special reference to the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Peter, the Protevangelium of James, the Infancy Gospel of Thomas, Papyrus Egerton 2, Gospel of Mary, Gospel of Judas, Gospel of Philip, Dialogue of the Savior and Secret Mark; their relationship to other early Christian texts, their view of Jesus, their place in early Christianity; questions of authority, canon, canonical-bias, and concepts of heresy and orthodoxy.	(CZ) Civilizations
20760	RELIGION	 350S	NON-CANONICAL GOSPELS	Historical-critical study of early non-canonical Christian Gospels, with special reference to the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Peter, the Protevangelium of James, the Infancy Gospel of Thomas, Papyrus Egerton 2, Gospel of Mary, Gospel of Judas, Gospel of Philip, Dialogue of the Savior and Secret Mark; their relationship to other early Christian texts, their view of Jesus, their place in early Christianity; questions of authority, canon, canonical-bias, and concepts of heresy and orthodoxy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20760	RELIGION	 350S	NON-CANONICAL GOSPELS	Historical-critical study of early non-canonical Christian Gospels, with special reference to the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Peter, the Protevangelium of James, the Infancy Gospel of Thomas, Papyrus Egerton 2, Gospel of Mary, Gospel of Judas, Gospel of Philip, Dialogue of the Savior and Secret Mark; their relationship to other early Christian texts, their view of Jesus, their place in early Christianity; questions of authority, canon, canonical-bias, and concepts of heresy and orthodoxy.	Seminar
20772	CULANTH	 208FS	THE ANTHROPOLOGY OF RACE	Same as Cultural Anthropology 208 but taught as part of the FOCUS program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20772	CULANTH	 208FS	THE ANTHROPOLOGY OF RACE	Same as Cultural Anthropology 208 but taught as part of the FOCUS program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20772	CULANTH	 208FS	THE ANTHROPOLOGY OF RACE	Same as Cultural Anthropology 208 but taught as part of the FOCUS program.	(SS) Social Sciences
20772	CULANTH	 208FS	THE ANTHROPOLOGY OF RACE	Same as Cultural Anthropology 208 but taught as part of the FOCUS program.	Seminar
20784	PHYSICS	174	FRONTIERS OF BIOPHYSICS	Once-per-week class with goal of introducing students to representative frontiers of biophysics. Course will be a mixture of presentations by researchers, presentations by students of journal articles, and some lab tours. Prerequisites: Knowledge equivalent to Advanced Placement courses in biology, chemistry and physics, or with permission of the instructor.	(NS) Natural Sciences
20784	PHYSICS	174	FRONTIERS OF BIOPHYSICS	Once-per-week class with goal of introducing students to representative frontiers of biophysics. Course will be a mixture of presentations by researchers, presentations by students of journal articles, and some lab tours. Prerequisites: Knowledge equivalent to Advanced Placement courses in biology, chemistry and physics, or with permission of the instructor.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
20823	EDUC	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20823	EDUC	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20823	EDUC	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	(SS) Social Sciences
20823	EDUC	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	Seminar
20823	RIGHTS	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
20823	RIGHTS	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
20823	RIGHTS	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	(SS) Social Sciences
20823	RIGHTS	 111FS	RETHINKING SCHOOL: SOC JUSTICE	In 1954 the Supreme Court case Brown versus the Board of Education forever changed American schools by ending segregation and creating educational equity. Or did it? Are today's schools any more inclusive or socially just than schools were 50 years ago? Examination of ways schools may or may not perpetuate and reproduce social inequities. Focus on recent efforts to imagine and create socially-just schools. Discussion of our ethical responsibilities as civically engaged citizens to work towards educational equality and provide support of schools that are inclusive, culturally responsive, and democratic. Required service-learning experience working with children in a Durham public school.	Seminar
20874	CREOLE	101	ELEMENTARY CREOLE I	An introduction to the essential elements of Haitian Creole or Kreyl language and aspects of Haitian culture. The first of the two-semester sequence of elementary Haitian Creole or Kreyl, the course provides practice in understanding, speaking, reading, and writing the language, culturally contextualized through units on health care, Haitian women's rights issues, and unpaid child servants (restavk). Students will acquire enough vocabulary and idioms to be able to interact with Haitians. Taught in Haitian Creole. No prerequisite.	(FL) Foreign Language
20876	CREOLE	203	INTERMEDIATE CREOLE I	First semester of intermediate Haitian Creole or Kreyol. This course moves beyond survival skills in Creole to more complex social interactions and expressions of analysis and opinion. Intermediate skills in understanding, speaking, writing, reading will be contextualized within a broad range of issues such as rural life in Haiti, religion, frenchified Creole vs popular Creole, through texts, poems, and excerpts taken from novels in Haitian Creole. Students will learn to carefully follow contemporary events and debates in Haitian culture using internet resources in Creole. Pre-requisite: Creole 102 or equivalent. Taught in Haitian Creole.	(FL) Foreign Language
20997	PJMS	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Independent project in an area of Policy Journalism and Media Studies (PJMS), under the supervision or sponsorship of a faculty member. Projects must be pre-approved by the supervising faculty member, and a PJMS co-chair.	Independent Study
21061	BIOLOGY	 385L	INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCI LAB	Gain skills necessary to conduct neuroscience research and integrate findings from multiple levels of analysis (molecular, cellular and behavioral). Team-based learning format and collaboration with neuroscience lab to generate, analyze, and communicate novel scientific findings. Experimentation will occur in a model organism and may include PCR, live cell imaging and/or behavioral conditioning experiments.	(NS) Natural Sciences
21061	BIOLOGY	 385L	INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCI LAB	Gain skills necessary to conduct neuroscience research and integrate findings from multiple levels of analysis (molecular, cellular and behavioral). Team-based learning format and collaboration with neuroscience lab to generate, analyze, and communicate novel scientific findings. Experimentation will occur in a model organism and may include PCR, live cell imaging and/or behavioral conditioning experiments.	(R) Research
21061	BIOLOGY	 385L	INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCI LAB	Gain skills necessary to conduct neuroscience research and integrate findings from multiple levels of analysis (molecular, cellular and behavioral). Team-based learning format and collaboration with neuroscience lab to generate, analyze, and communicate novel scientific findings. Experimentation will occur in a model organism and may include PCR, live cell imaging and/or behavioral conditioning experiments.	(W) Writing
21061	NEUROSCI	 385L	INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCI LAB	Gain skills necessary to conduct neuroscience research and integrate findings from multiple levels of analysis (molecular, cellular and behavioral). Team-based learning format and collaboration with neuroscience lab to generate, analyze, and communicate novel scientific findings. Experimentation will occur in a model organism and may include PCR, live cell imaging and/or behavioral conditioning experiments.	(NS) Natural Sciences
21061	NEUROSCI	 385L	INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCI LAB	Gain skills necessary to conduct neuroscience research and integrate findings from multiple levels of analysis (molecular, cellular and behavioral). Team-based learning format and collaboration with neuroscience lab to generate, analyze, and communicate novel scientific findings. Experimentation will occur in a model organism and may include PCR, live cell imaging and/or behavioral conditioning experiments.	(R) Research
21061	NEUROSCI	 385L	INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCI LAB	Gain skills necessary to conduct neuroscience research and integrate findings from multiple levels of analysis (molecular, cellular and behavioral). Team-based learning format and collaboration with neuroscience lab to generate, analyze, and communicate novel scientific findings. Experimentation will occur in a model organism and may include PCR, live cell imaging and/or behavioral conditioning experiments.	(W) Writing
21070	AADS	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21070	AADS	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21070	AADS	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CZ) Civilizations
21070	AADS	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(R) Research
21070	AMES	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21070	AMES	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21070	AMES	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CZ) Civilizations
21070	AMES	335	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(R) Research
21070	HISTORY	228	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21070	HISTORY	228	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21070	HISTORY	228	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CZ) Civilizations
21070	HISTORY	228	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(R) Research
21070	ICS	336	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21070	ICS	336	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21070	ICS	336	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(CZ) Civilizations
21070	ICS	336	CHINATOWNS: A CULTURAL HISTORY	Explores the intersection of space and ethnicity through the myriad ways Chinatown has circulated as memory, fantasy, narrative, myth, in the dominant cultural imagination, and how lived realities of overseas Chinese communities, Asian American history, and changing conceptions of 'Chineseness' have productively engaged with real and phantom Chinatowns. Research will emphasize multi-disciplinary approaches, such as urban history, architecture, ethnography, economics; or engagement in a creative project.	(R) Research
21101	CHILDPOL	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research on a topic of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation. Consent of instructor and director of the Child Policy Research certificate program required.	(R) Research
21101	CHILDPOL	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research on a topic of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation. Consent of instructor and director of the Child Policy Research certificate program required.	(SS) Social Sciences
21101	CHILDPOL	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research on a topic of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper containing significant analysis and interpretation. Consent of instructor and director of the Child Policy Research certificate program required.	Independent Study
21118	ECON	375	ECON OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Application of microeconomic theory, such as game theory and industrial organization, to analyze business start-ups and their development. Focus on evaluation of the role of entrepreneurs in the macroeconomy, and the microeconomic performance of young businesses. The effects of government policies and economic fluctuations on entrepreneurs will be addressed, as well as an understanding of the organization and financial structure, development, and allocational decisions of growing entrepreneurial ventures. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(R) Research
21118	ECON	375	ECON OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Application of microeconomic theory, such as game theory and industrial organization, to analyze business start-ups and their development. Focus on evaluation of the role of entrepreneurs in the macroeconomy, and the microeconomic performance of young businesses. The effects of government policies and economic fluctuations on entrepreneurs will be addressed, as well as an understanding of the organization and financial structure, development, and allocational decisions of growing entrepreneurial ventures. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
21118	I&E	375	ECON OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Application of microeconomic theory, such as game theory and industrial organization, to analyze business start-ups and their development. Focus on evaluation of the role of entrepreneurs in the macroeconomy, and the microeconomic performance of young businesses. The effects of government policies and economic fluctuations on entrepreneurs will be addressed, as well as an understanding of the organization and financial structure, development, and allocational decisions of growing entrepreneurial ventures. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(R) Research
21118	I&E	375	ECON OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Application of microeconomic theory, such as game theory and industrial organization, to analyze business start-ups and their development. Focus on evaluation of the role of entrepreneurs in the macroeconomy, and the microeconomic performance of young businesses. The effects of government policies and economic fluctuations on entrepreneurs will be addressed, as well as an understanding of the organization and financial structure, development, and allocational decisions of growing entrepreneurial ventures. Prerequisite: Economics 201D.	(SS) Social Sciences
21128	CINE	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21128	CINE	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	Seminar
21128	DOCST	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21128	DOCST	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	Seminar
21128	ENVIRON	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21128	ENVIRON	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	Seminar
21128	LATAMER	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21128	LATAMER	 315S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	Seminar
21128	VMS	 309S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21128	VMS	 309S	ENVIRON. ISSUES & THE DOC ARTS	Survey how filmmakers, authors, photographers, and other artists have brought environmental issues to the public's attention in the last century, and in some cases instigated profound societal and political change. Examine the nebulous distinctions between persuasion and propaganda, agenda and allegory, point of view and content. Evolve as a viewer of the environment and a maker of documentary art. Initiate your own projects to address and/or depict environmental issues in one form of a broad range of media.	Seminar
21163	BME	 244L	QUANT PHYSIOLOGY BIOSTAT APPL	An examination of the importance of mass and energy balances, transport processes, mechanics, energetics, and electrical activity in physiological systems. Lectures cover cellular physiology, cardiovascular system, nervous system, muscle physiology, and renal physiology. Labs complement lecture topics and introduce statistical methods related to the measurement and analysis of physiological data. Statistical topics include: descriptive statistics; hypothesis testing; correlation, regression, and goodness of fit; ANOVA and post-hoc tests; power analysis and experimental design. Prerequisite: Engineering 103L or Computer Science 201 and co-/prerequisite: (Biology 201L or Biology 203L) and (Mathematics 212, 216, 218D-2, 219, 221, 222 or 353).	Course has lab
21215	CINE	 268S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21215	CINE	 268S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21215	CINE	 268S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CZ) Civilizations
21215	CINE	 268S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21215	CINE	 268S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	Seminar
21215	ICS	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21215	ICS	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21215	ICS	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CZ) Civilizations
21215	ICS	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21215	ICS	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	Seminar
21215	LIT	 216S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21215	LIT	 216S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21215	LIT	 216S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CZ) Civilizations
21215	LIT	 216S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21215	LIT	 216S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	Seminar
21215	POLISH	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21215	POLISH	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21215	POLISH	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CZ) Civilizations
21215	POLISH	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21215	POLISH	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	Seminar
21215	SES	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21215	SES	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21215	SES	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CZ) Civilizations
21215	SES	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21215	SES	 288S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	Seminar
21215	VMS	 284S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21215	VMS	 284S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21215	VMS	 284S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(CZ) Civilizations
21215	VMS	 284S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21215	VMS	 284S	21ST CENT EAST EUROPEAN FILM	Examines the major thematic focus of East European filmmakers in the 21st century: their efforts to reconstruct and reassess the experience of the Cold War (1945-1989) and the Yugoslav wars (1991-1995).  These films from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Croatia, and Serbia include ironic/sentimental tales of Cold War childhood, thrillers about sleeping with the enemy (political informers), and psychological dramas centering on political trauma, resistance, and compromise.  All films shown with English subtitles.	Seminar
21262	BME	 244L9	QUANT PHYSIOLOGY BIOSTAT APPL	Quantitative Physiology with Biostatistical Applications. Prerequisite: Engineering 103L or Computer Science 201 and co-/prerequisite: (Biology 201L or Biology 203L) and (Mathematics 212, 216, 218D-2, 219, 221, 222 or 353).	Course has a lecture
21300	MEDREN	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN FOCUS	Special topics in Medieval and Renaissance Studies open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
21300	MEDREN	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN FOCUS	Special topics in Medieval and Renaissance Studies open only to students in the Focus Program.	Topics Course
21303	CLST	206	CLASSICS OF PAGE AND SCREEN	Exploration of ancient, medieval and modern conceptualizations of good and evil as found in the iconic heroes, villains, and buffoons of literature and film; film and literature as windows onto their contemporary historical contexts, and as indicators of social values, debates, and limits.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21303	CLST	206	CLASSICS OF PAGE AND SCREEN	Exploration of ancient, medieval and modern conceptualizations of good and evil as found in the iconic heroes, villains, and buffoons of literature and film; film and literature as windows onto their contemporary historical contexts, and as indicators of social values, debates, and limits.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21303	CLST	206	CLASSICS OF PAGE AND SCREEN	Exploration of ancient, medieval and modern conceptualizations of good and evil as found in the iconic heroes, villains, and buffoons of literature and film; film and literature as windows onto their contemporary historical contexts, and as indicators of social values, debates, and limits.	(CZ) Civilizations
21325	AMES	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies 390. Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
21325	AMES	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies 390. Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
21348	ECON	370	GLOBAL CAPITAL MARKETS	Financial markets and the role of investment banks as intermediaries. Divisions and functions within investment banks: sales and trading, corporate finance, research and wealth management. Aspects of asset pricing and corporate valuation. Impact of current events on financial markets. Intended primarily for sophomores interested in a career in financial markets. Consent of instructor required.	(SS) Social Sciences
21348	ECON	370	GLOBAL CAPITAL MARKETS	Financial markets and the role of investment banks as intermediaries. Divisions and functions within investment banks: sales and trading, corporate finance, research and wealth management. Aspects of asset pricing and corporate valuation. Impact of current events on financial markets. Intended primarily for sophomores interested in a career in financial markets. Consent of instructor required.	(W) Writing
21358	SCISOC	 293-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a Science & Society topic of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing specific analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Meets the research experience requirement for the Certificate in Science & Society as well as a Research (R) mode of inquiry curriculum requirement. Open to all qualified students with consent of supervising instructor and Director of Science & Society Certificate.	(R) Research
21358	SCISOC	 293-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a Science & Society topic of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing specific analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Meets the research experience requirement for the Certificate in Science & Society as well as a Research (R) mode of inquiry curriculum requirement. Open to all qualified students with consent of supervising instructor and Director of Science & Society Certificate.	Independent Study
21370	CINE	 306S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21370	CINE	 306S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	(W) Writing
21370	CINE	 306S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	Seminar
21370	ENGLISH	 225S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21370	ENGLISH	 225S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	(W) Writing
21370	ENGLISH	 225S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	Seminar
21370	VMS	 360S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21370	VMS	 360S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	(W) Writing
21370	VMS	 360S	WRITING THE MOVIE	Theory and practice of the process of writing for the screen. Exploration of visual storytelling; analysis of screenplays and movies; developing original stories into screenplay format. Projects: writing and presenting treatments, outlines and scenes.	Seminar
21374	MATH	340	ADVANCED INTRO PROBABILITY	Advanced introduction to basic, non-measure theoretic probability covering topics in more depth and with more rigor than MATH 230. Topics include random variables with discrete and continuous distributions. Independence, joint distributions, conditional distributions, generating functions, Bayes' formula, and Markov chains. Rigorous arguments are presented for the law of large numbers, central limit theorem, and Poisson limit theorems. Prerequisite: Mathematics 202, 212, or 222. Not open to those who have taken Mathematics 230 or Statistics 230.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
21374	STA	231	ADVANCED INTRO PROBABILITY	Advanced introduction to basic, non-measure theoretic probability covering topics in more depth and with more rigor than MATH 230. Topics include random variables with discrete and continuous distributions. Independence, joint distributions, conditional distributions, generating functions, Bayes' formula, and Markov chains. Rigorous arguments are presented for the law of large numbers, central limit theorem, and Poisson limit theorems. Prerequisite: Mathematics 202, 212, or 222. Not open to those who have taken Mathematics 230 or Statistics 230.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
21375	COMPSCI	434	TOPOLOGICAL DATA ANALYSIS	Introduction to topology from a computational view-point, with a focus on applications. Themes include: basic notions of point-set topology, persistent homology, finding multi-scale topological structure in point cloud data. Algorithmic considerations emphasized. Prerequisite: Mathematics 221 or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
21375	MATH	412	TOPOLOGICAL DATA ANALYSIS	Introduction to topology from a computational view-point, with a focus on applications. Themes include: basic notions of point-set topology, persistent homology, finding multi-scale topological structure in point cloud data. Algorithmic considerations emphasized. Prerequisite: Mathematics 221 or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
21376	COMPSCI	445	INTRO HIGH DIM DATA ANALYSIS	Geometry of high dimensional data sets. Linear dimension reduction, principal component analysis, kernel methods. Nonlinear dimension reduction, manifold models. Graphs. Random walks on graphs, diffusions, page rank. Clustering, classification and regression in high-dimensions. Sparsity. Computational aspects, randomized algorithms. Prerequisite: Mathematics 218 or 221.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
21376	MATH	465	INTRO HIGH DIM DATA ANALYSIS	Geometry of high dimensional data sets. Linear dimension reduction, principal component analysis, kernel methods. Nonlinear dimension reduction, manifold models. Graphs. Random walks on graphs, diffusions, page rank. Clustering, classification and regression in high-dimensions. Sparsity. Computational aspects, randomized algorithms. Prerequisite: Mathematics 218 or 221.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
21376	STA	465	INTRO HIGH DIM DATA ANALYSIS	Geometry of high dimensional data sets. Linear dimension reduction, principal component analysis, kernel methods. Nonlinear dimension reduction, manifold models. Graphs. Random walks on graphs, diffusions, page rank. Clustering, classification and regression in high-dimensions. Sparsity. Computational aspects, randomized algorithms. Prerequisite: Mathematics 218 or 221.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
21413	LINGUIST	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21413	LINGUIST	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(SS) Social Sciences
21413	LINGUIST	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21413	LINGUIST	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	Seminar
21413	PUBPOL	 250FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21413	PUBPOL	 250FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(SS) Social Sciences
21413	PUBPOL	 250FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21413	PUBPOL	 250FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	Seminar
21413	SCISOC	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21413	SCISOC	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(SS) Social Sciences
21413	SCISOC	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21413	SCISOC	 212FS	LAW, ETHICS & RESPONSIBILITY	Examines the intersection of law and neuroscience, including the use of neuroimaging to determine if a witness is telling the truth; the implications of neuroscience for determining the mental competency of defendants, the insanity defense, the imposition of punishment on defendants. Considers the extent to which recent advances in brain science cause us to reevaluate fundamental legal concepts of 'intent,' 'insanity,' and responsibility; the ways in which neuroscience may be applied to these and related issues; and the inherent limitations and incongruities of applying brain science to legal questions.	Seminar
21431	AMES	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual Research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
21431	AMES	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual Research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
21435	MUSIC	 162S	INTRODUCTION TO COMPOSITION	Exploration, in seminar/workshop format, of sound and music, expressed through projects involving instruments, voices, and intermedia. Consideration of the current field will provide concrete examples, ranging widely across 'kinds of music.' Investigations will touch on music theory and acoustics, orchestration, music technology and analysis. Primary emphasis on composing: creative discovery of expressive possibilities and compositional value of craft. Intended for students who may have written songs or composed, and who would like to continue their explorations.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21435	MUSIC	 162S	INTRODUCTION TO COMPOSITION	Exploration, in seminar/workshop format, of sound and music, expressed through projects involving instruments, voices, and intermedia. Consideration of the current field will provide concrete examples, ranging widely across 'kinds of music.' Investigations will touch on music theory and acoustics, orchestration, music technology and analysis. Primary emphasis on composing: creative discovery of expressive possibilities and compositional value of craft. Intended for students who may have written songs or composed, and who would like to continue their explorations.	Seminar
21439	DANCE	 490S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Special Topics in Dance.	Seminar
21439	DANCE	 490S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Special Topics in Dance.	Topics Course
21441	NEUROSCI	495	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 3	Third term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students continuing same project as for Neuroscience 493-494; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required. May be repeated with new faculty mentor or continued in Neuroscience 496.	(R) Research
21441	NEUROSCI	495	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 3	Third term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students continuing same project as for Neuroscience 493-494; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required. May be repeated with new faculty mentor or continued in Neuroscience 496.	Independent Study
21442	NEUROSCI	496	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 4	Fourth term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students continuing same project as for Neuroscience 493-495; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required.	(R) Research
21442	NEUROSCI	496	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY 4	Fourth term of Research Independent Study in a subfield of neuroscience of special interest to a student, under the supervision of a faculty member. Concludes with submission of a substantive written report containing background, methods, and significant analysis and interpretation of data. Meets general requirement of a curriculum Research (R) course. Open to students continuing same project as for Neuroscience 493-495; pre-approval of project by supervising faculty and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Neuroscience required.	Independent Study
21473	ECON	 351S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21473	ECON	 351S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(CZ) Civilizations
21473	ECON	 351S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(R) Research
21473	ECON	 351S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(SS) Social Sciences
21473	ECON	 351S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	Seminar
21473	POLSCI	 327S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21473	POLSCI	 327S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(CZ) Civilizations
21473	POLSCI	 327S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(R) Research
21473	POLSCI	 327S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	(SS) Social Sciences
21473	POLSCI	 327S	ECO/POL PERFORM. CIVILIZATIONS	Critical survey of theories concerning the economic and political development of major civilizations, with an emphasis on the causes of differences that took shape and persisted over long time periods. The theories covered address the roles of institutions, cultures, legal systems, beliefs, family structures, religions, institutions, technologies, geography, and natural resources. Interactions between economic and political development. Prerequisite: Econ 201D, or instructor consent.	Seminar
21511	POLSCI	 497S-6	SENIOR SEM IN POL ECONOMY	Special topics in political economy; open also, if places are available, to qualified juniors who have earned a 3.0 average and obtain the consent of the instructor.	(SS) Social Sciences
21511	POLSCI	 497S-6	SENIOR SEM IN POL ECONOMY	Special topics in political economy; open also, if places are available, to qualified juniors who have earned a 3.0 average and obtain the consent of the instructor.	Seminar
21537	KOREAN	 455S	KOREAN POLITICS AND SOCIETY	An advanced class for students having completed a fourth year course in Korean, or for international students schooled in Korea. Explores controversial issues in contemporary South Korea such as economic aid to North Korea, restrictions on online anonymity, legal status of immigrants, the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement, revision of National Security Laws, with focus on their ethical dimensions, diverging perspectives, underlying ideologies, and historical contexts. Course materials drawn from media and academic publications in Korean. Prerequisite: Korean 407S or 408S. Students with equivalent preparation to the prerequisite course may contact instructor for a permission number.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21537	KOREAN	 455S	KOREAN POLITICS AND SOCIETY	An advanced class for students having completed a fourth year course in Korean, or for international students schooled in Korea. Explores controversial issues in contemporary South Korea such as economic aid to North Korea, restrictions on online anonymity, legal status of immigrants, the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement, revision of National Security Laws, with focus on their ethical dimensions, diverging perspectives, underlying ideologies, and historical contexts. Course materials drawn from media and academic publications in Korean. Prerequisite: Korean 407S or 408S. Students with equivalent preparation to the prerequisite course may contact instructor for a permission number.	(CZ) Civilizations
21537	KOREAN	 455S	KOREAN POLITICS AND SOCIETY	An advanced class for students having completed a fourth year course in Korean, or for international students schooled in Korea. Explores controversial issues in contemporary South Korea such as economic aid to North Korea, restrictions on online anonymity, legal status of immigrants, the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement, revision of National Security Laws, with focus on their ethical dimensions, diverging perspectives, underlying ideologies, and historical contexts. Course materials drawn from media and academic publications in Korean. Prerequisite: Korean 407S or 408S. Students with equivalent preparation to the prerequisite course may contact instructor for a permission number.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21537	KOREAN	 455S	KOREAN POLITICS AND SOCIETY	An advanced class for students having completed a fourth year course in Korean, or for international students schooled in Korea. Explores controversial issues in contemporary South Korea such as economic aid to North Korea, restrictions on online anonymity, legal status of immigrants, the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement, revision of National Security Laws, with focus on their ethical dimensions, diverging perspectives, underlying ideologies, and historical contexts. Course materials drawn from media and academic publications in Korean. Prerequisite: Korean 407S or 408S. Students with equivalent preparation to the prerequisite course may contact instructor for a permission number.	(FL) Foreign Language
21537	KOREAN	 455S	KOREAN POLITICS AND SOCIETY	An advanced class for students having completed a fourth year course in Korean, or for international students schooled in Korea. Explores controversial issues in contemporary South Korea such as economic aid to North Korea, restrictions on online anonymity, legal status of immigrants, the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement, revision of National Security Laws, with focus on their ethical dimensions, diverging perspectives, underlying ideologies, and historical contexts. Course materials drawn from media and academic publications in Korean. Prerequisite: Korean 407S or 408S. Students with equivalent preparation to the prerequisite course may contact instructor for a permission number.	(SS) Social Sciences
21537	KOREAN	 455S	KOREAN POLITICS AND SOCIETY	An advanced class for students having completed a fourth year course in Korean, or for international students schooled in Korea. Explores controversial issues in contemporary South Korea such as economic aid to North Korea, restrictions on online anonymity, legal status of immigrants, the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement, revision of National Security Laws, with focus on their ethical dimensions, diverging perspectives, underlying ideologies, and historical contexts. Course materials drawn from media and academic publications in Korean. Prerequisite: Korean 407S or 408S. Students with equivalent preparation to the prerequisite course may contact instructor for a permission number.	Seminar
21538	POLSCI	 493-6	SEN RES IND STUDY POL ECON	Same as Political Science 493-1 except fulfills a political economy course requirement.	(R) Research
21538	POLSCI	 493-6	SEN RES IND STUDY POL ECON	Same as Political Science 493-1 except fulfills a political economy course requirement.	Independent Study
21548	POLSCI	 493-5	SEN RES IND STUDY METHODS	Same as Political Science 493-1 except fulfills a political methodology course requirement.	(R) Research
21548	POLSCI	 493-5	SEN RES IND STUDY METHODS	Same as Political Science 493-1 except fulfills a political methodology course requirement.	Independent Study
21549	PJMS	390	SPECIAL TOPICS	Selected policy, journalism and media studies topics.	Topics Course
21573	ICS	 190S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ICS	Seminar version of International Comparative Studies. Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
21573	ICS	 190S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ICS	Seminar version of International Comparative Studies. Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
21600	HISTORY	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21600	HISTORY	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CZ) Civilizations
21600	HISTORY	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21600	HISTORY	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21600	JEWISHST	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21600	JEWISHST	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CZ) Civilizations
21600	JEWISHST	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21600	JEWISHST	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21600	POLSCI	262	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21600	POLSCI	262	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CZ) Civilizations
21600	POLSCI	262	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21600	POLSCI	262	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21600	RELIGION	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21600	RELIGION	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CZ) Civilizations
21600	RELIGION	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21600	RELIGION	342	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21600	RIGHTS	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21600	RIGHTS	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(CZ) Civilizations
21600	RIGHTS	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21600	RIGHTS	297	THE HOLOCAUST	Antisemitism and the Jewish question in Central Europe, the development of Nazi policy, the Final Solution in its different sites (ghetto, labor camps, extermination camps) and institutions (SS, Judenrat), the Holocaust's legacy. Historiographical debates and documentary research.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21642	LIT	 201S	INTRO GLOBAL CULTURAL STUDIES	Introductory course for the Literature Major in Global Cultural Studies. Examines how the work of the humanities provides conceptual and analytic skills for processing complex textual, cultural, scientific, mediatic, and ethical information in circulation in the contemporary world. Begins by asking what Global Cultural Studies is and why exploring culture in a global frame is important in our world today. Focuses on a particular area of cultural production and combines theoretical and historical analysis with concrete exploration of films and other media, literary texts, and other cultural material.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21642	LIT	 201S	INTRO GLOBAL CULTURAL STUDIES	Introductory course for the Literature Major in Global Cultural Studies. Examines how the work of the humanities provides conceptual and analytic skills for processing complex textual, cultural, scientific, mediatic, and ethical information in circulation in the contemporary world. Begins by asking what Global Cultural Studies is and why exploring culture in a global frame is important in our world today. Focuses on a particular area of cultural production and combines theoretical and historical analysis with concrete exploration of films and other media, literary texts, and other cultural material.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21642	LIT	 201S	INTRO GLOBAL CULTURAL STUDIES	Introductory course for the Literature Major in Global Cultural Studies. Examines how the work of the humanities provides conceptual and analytic skills for processing complex textual, cultural, scientific, mediatic, and ethical information in circulation in the contemporary world. Begins by asking what Global Cultural Studies is and why exploring culture in a global frame is important in our world today. Focuses on a particular area of cultural production and combines theoretical and historical analysis with concrete exploration of films and other media, literary texts, and other cultural material.	(CZ) Civilizations
21642	LIT	 201S	INTRO GLOBAL CULTURAL STUDIES	Introductory course for the Literature Major in Global Cultural Studies. Examines how the work of the humanities provides conceptual and analytic skills for processing complex textual, cultural, scientific, mediatic, and ethical information in circulation in the contemporary world. Begins by asking what Global Cultural Studies is and why exploring culture in a global frame is important in our world today. Focuses on a particular area of cultural production and combines theoretical and historical analysis with concrete exploration of films and other media, literary texts, and other cultural material.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21642	LIT	 201S	INTRO GLOBAL CULTURAL STUDIES	Introductory course for the Literature Major in Global Cultural Studies. Examines how the work of the humanities provides conceptual and analytic skills for processing complex textual, cultural, scientific, mediatic, and ethical information in circulation in the contemporary world. Begins by asking what Global Cultural Studies is and why exploring culture in a global frame is important in our world today. Focuses on a particular area of cultural production and combines theoretical and historical analysis with concrete exploration of films and other media, literary texts, and other cultural material.	Seminar
21743	GERMAN	 290-1	SPECIAL TOPICS	Aspects of German culture and civilization. Topics vary. Taught in English.	Topics Course
21755	ROMST	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
21755	ROMST	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
21771	ARTHIST	311	MUSEUM PRACTICUM II	Additional depth or breadth of experience in museum work in the context of art-historical, ethical, philosophical, and economic issues related to the presentation of art in museums. Under the direction of museum staff, students engage in practicum to gain first-hand knowledge of museum operations. Museum Practicum II requires eight hours per week working in assigned department, additional readings and assignments. Students produce documents related to a museum department. Prerequisite: Art History 310.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21773	VMS	 190S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN VMS	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines that relate to visual and media studies.	Seminar
21773	VMS	 190S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN VMS	Subjects, areas, or themes that embrace a range of disciplines that relate to visual and media studies.	Topics Course
21776	PUBPOL	 490S	CAPSTONE SEM: SP TOP	Selected topics for courses offering capstone experiences or advanced research. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
21776	PUBPOL	 490S	CAPSTONE SEM: SP TOP	Selected topics for courses offering capstone experiences or advanced research. Instructor consent required.	Topics Course
21794	HISTORY	 171S	GTWY SEM: HISTORY OF INTIMACY	Examines how changing definitions of friendship, family structure, childhood, romantic love, gender roles, and sexual orientation shaped identity formation, social conflict, and cultural production through time. Course materials include letters, diaries, autobiographies, novels, government documents, and films, in addition to academic articles and books. Students produce final projects based in original research and significant secondary reading. Time period and geographical focus varies with instructor.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21794	HISTORY	 171S	GTWY SEM: HISTORY OF INTIMACY	Examines how changing definitions of friendship, family structure, childhood, romantic love, gender roles, and sexual orientation shaped identity formation, social conflict, and cultural production through time. Course materials include letters, diaries, autobiographies, novels, government documents, and films, in addition to academic articles and books. Students produce final projects based in original research and significant secondary reading. Time period and geographical focus varies with instructor.	(CZ) Civilizations
21794	HISTORY	 171S	GTWY SEM: HISTORY OF INTIMACY	Examines how changing definitions of friendship, family structure, childhood, romantic love, gender roles, and sexual orientation shaped identity formation, social conflict, and cultural production through time. Course materials include letters, diaries, autobiographies, novels, government documents, and films, in addition to academic articles and books. Students produce final projects based in original research and significant secondary reading. Time period and geographical focus varies with instructor.	(R) Research
21794	HISTORY	 171S	GTWY SEM: HISTORY OF INTIMACY	Examines how changing definitions of friendship, family structure, childhood, romantic love, gender roles, and sexual orientation shaped identity formation, social conflict, and cultural production through time. Course materials include letters, diaries, autobiographies, novels, government documents, and films, in addition to academic articles and books. Students produce final projects based in original research and significant secondary reading. Time period and geographical focus varies with instructor.	(W) Writing
21794	HISTORY	 171S	GTWY SEM: HISTORY OF INTIMACY	Examines how changing definitions of friendship, family structure, childhood, romantic love, gender roles, and sexual orientation shaped identity formation, social conflict, and cultural production through time. Course materials include letters, diaries, autobiographies, novels, government documents, and films, in addition to academic articles and books. Students produce final projects based in original research and significant secondary reading. Time period and geographical focus varies with instructor.	Seminar
21816	HISTORY	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21816	HISTORY	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(CZ) Civilizations
21816	HISTORY	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21816	HISTORY	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(SS) Social Sciences
21816	PUBPOL	220	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21816	PUBPOL	220	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(CZ) Civilizations
21816	PUBPOL	220	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21816	PUBPOL	220	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(SS) Social Sciences
21816	RIGHTS	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21816	RIGHTS	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(CZ) Civilizations
21816	RIGHTS	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
21816	RIGHTS	352	IMMIGRANT DREAMS/US REALITIES	Immigrants and immigration policy in the United States from 1850 to the present, with focus on origins and power of immigrant exclusion during three waves of migration: Northern European and Asian migrations between 1850 and 1880, Eastern European, Latin American, and Asian migrations, 1880-1920, and Latin American, African, and Asian migrations, post 1965. Immigrant roles in shaping policy debates, citizenship rights, labor movements, and American culture, past and present.	(SS) Social Sciences
21825	PSY	212	FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY	Examine the role of clinical psychology in forensic evaluations. Introduction: mental status evaluations and assessment for competency to stand trial. Explore impact of mental health disorders on forensics process. Read and discuss related texts regarding legal and social issues related to forensics. Psychology 105 suggested prior to taking this course.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
21825	PSY	212	FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY	Examine the role of clinical psychology in forensic evaluations. Introduction: mental status evaluations and assessment for competency to stand trial. Explore impact of mental health disorders on forensics process. Read and discuss related texts regarding legal and social issues related to forensics. Psychology 105 suggested prior to taking this course.	(SS) Social Sciences
21850	ARTSVIS	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of visual practice on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a regular-rank faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
21851	ARTSVIS	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of visual practice on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a regular-rank faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
21852	MGM	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY I	Independent Research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member. Open to sophomores with consent of supervising instructor required.	(R) Research
21852	MGM	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY I	Independent Research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member. Open to sophomores with consent of supervising instructor required.	Independent Study
21858	CINE	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21858	CINE	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21858	CINE	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	Seminar
21858	DOCST	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21858	DOCST	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21858	DOCST	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	Seminar
21858	VMS	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
21858	VMS	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
21858	VMS	 208S	SILENT FILM	The first thirty-five years of cinema as an emerging art form and mode of communication. Aesthetic, technical, and cultural aspects of the medium will be considered in historical context, from nineteenth-century experiments to nascent narrative conventions and the first disruptive avant-garde movements. Focus is on close reading of relevant films.	Seminar
21868	RUSSIAN	390	SPECIAL TOPICS	Special topics in Russian culture. Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
21892	DANCE	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic or artistic product. Consent of instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
21923	ENVIRON	 391-1	INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Environment 391. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor. Half credit.	Independent Study
21987	GSF	 190S	SP TOPICS WOMEN'S STUDIES	Seminar topics vary, focusing on interdisciplinary work arising from feminist scholarship.	Seminar
21987	GSF	 190S	SP TOPICS WOMEN'S STUDIES	Seminar topics vary, focusing on interdisciplinary work arising from feminist scholarship.	Topics Course
22089	ENGLISH	 321S	INT. WORKSHOP WTG OF FICT.	Intermediate workshops present a higher creative standard than introductory workshops and increased expectations in both quantity and quality of revised, finished work. Prerequisite: English 110S OR English 221S, or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22089	ENGLISH	 321S	INT. WORKSHOP WTG OF FICT.	Intermediate workshops present a higher creative standard than introductory workshops and increased expectations in both quantity and quality of revised, finished work. Prerequisite: English 110S OR English 221S, or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(W) Writing
22089	ENGLISH	 321S	INT. WORKSHOP WTG OF FICT.	Intermediate workshops present a higher creative standard than introductory workshops and increased expectations in both quantity and quality of revised, finished work. Prerequisite: English 110S OR English 221S, or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	Seminar
22091	ENGLISH	 421S	ADV WORKSHOP WTG. FICTION	Advanced Writing Workshops build on work done at intermediate level, and are intended for the most well-prepared and gifted creative writing students. Prerequisite: English 321S or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22091	ENGLISH	 421S	ADV WORKSHOP WTG. FICTION	Advanced Writing Workshops build on work done at intermediate level, and are intended for the most well-prepared and gifted creative writing students. Prerequisite: English 321S or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	(W) Writing
22091	ENGLISH	 421S	ADV WORKSHOP WTG. FICTION	Advanced Writing Workshops build on work done at intermediate level, and are intended for the most well-prepared and gifted creative writing students. Prerequisite: English 321S or consent of the instructor if prior work merits admission to the class (as judged by the instructor).	Seminar
22093	ENGLISH	 221S	INTRO. TO THE WRITING OF FICT.	Introductory level genre-specific workshops for students with some experience in creative writing wishing to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22093	ENGLISH	 221S	INTRO. TO THE WRITING OF FICT.	Introductory level genre-specific workshops for students with some experience in creative writing wishing to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110.	(W) Writing
22093	ENGLISH	 221S	INTRO. TO THE WRITING OF FICT.	Introductory level genre-specific workshops for students with some experience in creative writing wishing to deepen their knowledge of their chosen genre and gain increased mastery of elements of craft. Recommended for students who have taken English 110.	Seminar
22096	ARTSVIS	120	COMPOSITIONAL PAINTING	Studio practice in painting with individual and group criticism and discussion of important historical or contemporary ideas. Prerequisite: Visual Arts 199.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22099	POLSCI	 190FS	SP TOPICS IN FOCUS PROGRAM	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Topics differ by semester.	Seminar
22099	POLSCI	 190FS	SP TOPICS IN FOCUS PROGRAM	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Topics differ by semester.	Topics Course
22109	HISTORY	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22109	HISTORY	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(CZ) Civilizations
22109	HISTORY	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22109	HISTORY	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(R) Research
22109	HISTORY	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	Seminar
22109	ICS	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22109	ICS	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(CZ) Civilizations
22109	ICS	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22109	ICS	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	(R) Research
22109	ICS	 166S	GTWY SEM- ANARCHISM	Introduction to the 19th century philosophical foundations of anarchist thought and to the history of the major anarchist movements in the 20th century in Russia, Italy and Spain. The first part of the course is an intensive investigation of the thought of Michael Bakunin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin suing selections from their own writings. The next unit focuses on the movements they inspired in Russia and Western Europe. The last unit concerns the more contemporary manifestations of anarchism in the U.S. under the influence of Murray Bookshin. Students will write a major paper due at the end of the course.	Seminar
22130	NEUROSCI	 153FS	DRUGS AND THE LAW	Exploration of the relationship between addictive drugs and the law. Examine mechanisms by which drugs of abuse affect the brain and decision-making on the individual level, and consequences of those effects on the societal level, then examine how society responds to these behaviors in terms of attitudes and laws. Compare perspectives of the criminal justice system with that of drug users. Class consists of lectures, discussions, guest speakers, and media presentations and a project examining cross-generational views on drug use, abuse, and laws. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
22130	NEUROSCI	 153FS	DRUGS AND THE LAW	Exploration of the relationship between addictive drugs and the law. Examine mechanisms by which drugs of abuse affect the brain and decision-making on the individual level, and consequences of those effects on the societal level, then examine how society responds to these behaviors in terms of attitudes and laws. Compare perspectives of the criminal justice system with that of drug users. Class consists of lectures, discussions, guest speakers, and media presentations and a project examining cross-generational views on drug use, abuse, and laws. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
22130	PUBPOL	 185FS	DRUGS AND THE LAW	Exploration of the relationship between addictive drugs and the law. Examine mechanisms by which drugs of abuse affect the brain and decision-making on the individual level, and consequences of those effects on the societal level, then examine how society responds to these behaviors in terms of attitudes and laws. Compare perspectives of the criminal justice system with that of drug users. Class consists of lectures, discussions, guest speakers, and media presentations and a project examining cross-generational views on drug use, abuse, and laws. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
22130	PUBPOL	 185FS	DRUGS AND THE LAW	Exploration of the relationship between addictive drugs and the law. Examine mechanisms by which drugs of abuse affect the brain and decision-making on the individual level, and consequences of those effects on the societal level, then examine how society responds to these behaviors in terms of attitudes and laws. Compare perspectives of the criminal justice system with that of drug users. Class consists of lectures, discussions, guest speakers, and media presentations and a project examining cross-generational views on drug use, abuse, and laws. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
22130	SCISOC	 153FS	DRUGS AND THE LAW	Exploration of the relationship between addictive drugs and the law. Examine mechanisms by which drugs of abuse affect the brain and decision-making on the individual level, and consequences of those effects on the societal level, then examine how society responds to these behaviors in terms of attitudes and laws. Compare perspectives of the criminal justice system with that of drug users. Class consists of lectures, discussions, guest speakers, and media presentations and a project examining cross-generational views on drug use, abuse, and laws. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
22130	SCISOC	 153FS	DRUGS AND THE LAW	Exploration of the relationship between addictive drugs and the law. Examine mechanisms by which drugs of abuse affect the brain and decision-making on the individual level, and consequences of those effects on the societal level, then examine how society responds to these behaviors in terms of attitudes and laws. Compare perspectives of the criminal justice system with that of drug users. Class consists of lectures, discussions, guest speakers, and media presentations and a project examining cross-generational views on drug use, abuse, and laws. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
22147	AAAS	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22147	AAAS	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
22147	AAAS	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(SS) Social Sciences
22147	AAAS	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	Seminar
22147	CULANTH	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22147	CULANTH	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
22147	CULANTH	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(SS) Social Sciences
22147	CULANTH	 310S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	Seminar
22147	PUBPOL	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22147	PUBPOL	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
22147	PUBPOL	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(SS) Social Sciences
22147	PUBPOL	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	Seminar
22147	RIGHTS	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22147	RIGHTS	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
22147	RIGHTS	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	(SS) Social Sciences
22147	RIGHTS	 218S	CONFLICT ANALYSIS IN AFRICA	Utilizes four case studies to outline components of conflict analysis in Africa. Examines regional crisis nexus between Darfur, Chad and Central African Republic. Looks at issues of postcoloniality, autochthony, migration, citizenship, land tenure, and inequality. On a theoretical level, identifies potentially crosscutting, deeper layers of contemporary crises in Africa with the objective of establishing a series of templates, a 'protocol', for comparative conflict analysis and conflict management in Africa.	Seminar
22156	COMPSCI	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
22156	COMPSCI	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22156	ISS	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
22156	ISS	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22156	PHIL	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
22156	PHIL	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22156	PUBPOL	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
22156	PUBPOL	110	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Information, Society, and Culture across disciplines. How all aspects of information theory and practice, including computational and mathematical and those from social sciences and the humanities are transforming research, reframing intellectual questions in research and its application, and having an impact on interactions within societies, cultures, ideologies, economics, politics. Modules presented by faculty from all areas and schools, contrasting and comparative perspectives in research-driven modules focused on interdisciplinary project questions and ideas. Lecture/section activities. Course Gateway for the Bass Connections theme in Information, Society and Culture.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22163	CMAC	 240L	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Laboratory version of Information Science + Studies 240. Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22163	CMAC	 240L	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Laboratory version of Information Science + Studies 240. Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(R) Research
22163	ISS	 240L	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Laboratory version of Information Science + Studies 240. Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22163	ISS	 240L	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Laboratory version of Information Science + Studies 240. Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(R) Research
22163	VMS	 288L	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Laboratory version of Information Science + Studies 240. Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22163	VMS	 288L	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Laboratory version of Information Science + Studies 240. Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(R) Research
22168	HISTORY	114	INTRO HISTORY MODERN WARFARE	The course covers the history of warfare since the end of the eighteenth century. Our explorations focus on the nature and aims of European and US pursuits of war and the practices, languages, and experiences of its participants. We will pay special attention to the different ways in which militaries and civilian populations became the subjects and objects of warfare in the modern age.	(CZ) Civilizations
22168	HISTORY	114	INTRO HISTORY MODERN WARFARE	The course covers the history of warfare since the end of the eighteenth century. Our explorations focus on the nature and aims of European and US pursuits of war and the practices, languages, and experiences of its participants. We will pay special attention to the different ways in which militaries and civilian populations became the subjects and objects of warfare in the modern age.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22168	HISTORY	114	INTRO HISTORY MODERN WARFARE	The course covers the history of warfare since the end of the eighteenth century. Our explorations focus on the nature and aims of European and US pursuits of war and the practices, languages, and experiences of its participants. We will pay special attention to the different ways in which militaries and civilian populations became the subjects and objects of warfare in the modern age.	(SS) Social Sciences
22168	PUBPOL	160	INTRO HISTORY MODERN WARFARE	The course covers the history of warfare since the end of the eighteenth century. Our explorations focus on the nature and aims of European and US pursuits of war and the practices, languages, and experiences of its participants. We will pay special attention to the different ways in which militaries and civilian populations became the subjects and objects of warfare in the modern age.	(CZ) Civilizations
22168	PUBPOL	160	INTRO HISTORY MODERN WARFARE	The course covers the history of warfare since the end of the eighteenth century. Our explorations focus on the nature and aims of European and US pursuits of war and the practices, languages, and experiences of its participants. We will pay special attention to the different ways in which militaries and civilian populations became the subjects and objects of warfare in the modern age.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22168	PUBPOL	160	INTRO HISTORY MODERN WARFARE	The course covers the history of warfare since the end of the eighteenth century. Our explorations focus on the nature and aims of European and US pursuits of war and the practices, languages, and experiences of its participants. We will pay special attention to the different ways in which militaries and civilian populations became the subjects and objects of warfare in the modern age.	(SS) Social Sciences
22169	GLHLTH	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22169	GLHLTH	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22169	GLHLTH	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
22169	ICS	299	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22169	ICS	299	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22169	ICS	299	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
22169	RIGHTS	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22169	RIGHTS	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22169	RIGHTS	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
22169	SCISOC	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22169	SCISOC	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22169	SCISOC	341	ETHICS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Examination of the role of ethical decision-making when controlling infectious disease epidemics. Applies classic public health ethics of balancing individual liberty vs. public good to the new global health context of emerging infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Ebola, and SARS, plus re-emerging infectious diseases such as multidrug-resistant TB, polio, and cholera. Explores questions of resource allocation, mandatory or voluntary prevention measures, and ethical obligations of health care workers vs. responsibilities of individuals in the context of new global public health. Prior global health coursework recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
22174	GLHLTH	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22174	GLHLTH	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22174	GLHLTH	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(SS) Social Sciences
22174	ICS	295	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22174	ICS	295	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22174	ICS	295	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(SS) Social Sciences
22174	RIGHTS	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22174	RIGHTS	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22174	RIGHTS	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(SS) Social Sciences
22174	SCISOC	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22174	SCISOC	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22174	SCISOC	302	ILLNESS/DISABILITY NARRATIVES	The humanities help us learn more about the global experiences of people living with illness and disability. Using a global health humanities approach, we study illness and disability through biography, poetry, blogs, and art created by patients, families, friends, doctors, and caregivers. We look beyond data to find meaning through documentaries, theories of representation, and illness narratives. We explore different illness experiences, such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola; different disabilities, such as physical and cognitive; different gender identities and ages; and different locations, such as South Africa, West Africa, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Haiti, and rural and urban USA.	(SS) Social Sciences
22175	POLSCI	232	INTRODUCTION TO TERRORISM	Nature of terrorist organizations and government responses to them. Includes analysis of different aspects of terrorism: historical, social, cultural, economic, political, religious context; determinants of terrorism at state and individual level; organizational structure of terrorist groups' weapons and tactics; mobilization and recruitment within terror networks; terrorist finance; methods of counterterrorism. Details different methods of study of terrorism.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22175	POLSCI	232	INTRODUCTION TO TERRORISM	Nature of terrorist organizations and government responses to them. Includes analysis of different aspects of terrorism: historical, social, cultural, economic, political, religious context; determinants of terrorism at state and individual level; organizational structure of terrorist groups' weapons and tactics; mobilization and recruitment within terror networks; terrorist finance; methods of counterterrorism. Details different methods of study of terrorism.	(SS) Social Sciences
22213	LINGUIST	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22213	LINGUIST	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22213	LINGUIST	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(FL) Foreign Language
22213	LSGS	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22213	LSGS	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22213	LSGS	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(FL) Foreign Language
22213	SPANISH	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22213	SPANISH	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22213	SPANISH	310	SPANISH ENGLISH TRANSLATION	Introduction to theories of translation and practice translating Spanish to English and English to Spanish. Students explore key ethical concerns related to translation and interpretation, negotiate translation of cultural references, and give each other feedback on translation drafts and editing. Products created individually or in collaboration include ads, comics, articles, subtitling and dubbing, and reflections on the translation process. This is a community-engaged course. Engagement may include project-based service with community partners among other engaged practices. Prerequisite: 300-level Spanish course or equivalent. Consent of instructor is required.	(FL) Foreign Language
22266	CULANTH	323	FUND. OF GLOBAL MENTAL HEALTH	Examines global mental health from perspectives of culture, public health, epidemiology, human rights, policy, and intervention. Readings focus on peer-reviewed research literature highlighting topics such as the prevalence of mental health disorders worldwide, the role of culture in mental health, and the interventions backed by strong evidence for prevention and treatment. Students will discuss and critique study methodologies and explore the needs for future research in this emerging field. Designed for students with prior research methods and psychology coursework.	(R) Research
22266	CULANTH	323	FUND. OF GLOBAL MENTAL HEALTH	Examines global mental health from perspectives of culture, public health, epidemiology, human rights, policy, and intervention. Readings focus on peer-reviewed research literature highlighting topics such as the prevalence of mental health disorders worldwide, the role of culture in mental health, and the interventions backed by strong evidence for prevention and treatment. Students will discuss and critique study methodologies and explore the needs for future research in this emerging field. Designed for students with prior research methods and psychology coursework.	(SS) Social Sciences
22266	GLHLTH	363	FUND. OF GLOBAL MENTAL HEALTH	Examines global mental health from perspectives of culture, public health, epidemiology, human rights, policy, and intervention. Readings focus on peer-reviewed research literature highlighting topics such as the prevalence of mental health disorders worldwide, the role of culture in mental health, and the interventions backed by strong evidence for prevention and treatment. Students will discuss and critique study methodologies and explore the needs for future research in this emerging field. Designed for students with prior research methods and psychology coursework.	(R) Research
22266	GLHLTH	363	FUND. OF GLOBAL MENTAL HEALTH	Examines global mental health from perspectives of culture, public health, epidemiology, human rights, policy, and intervention. Readings focus on peer-reviewed research literature highlighting topics such as the prevalence of mental health disorders worldwide, the role of culture in mental health, and the interventions backed by strong evidence for prevention and treatment. Students will discuss and critique study methodologies and explore the needs for future research in this emerging field. Designed for students with prior research methods and psychology coursework.	(SS) Social Sciences
22266	PSY	323	FUND. OF GLOBAL MENTAL HEALTH	Examines global mental health from perspectives of culture, public health, epidemiology, human rights, policy, and intervention. Readings focus on peer-reviewed research literature highlighting topics such as the prevalence of mental health disorders worldwide, the role of culture in mental health, and the interventions backed by strong evidence for prevention and treatment. Students will discuss and critique study methodologies and explore the needs for future research in this emerging field. Designed for students with prior research methods and psychology coursework.	(R) Research
22266	PSY	323	FUND. OF GLOBAL MENTAL HEALTH	Examines global mental health from perspectives of culture, public health, epidemiology, human rights, policy, and intervention. Readings focus on peer-reviewed research literature highlighting topics such as the prevalence of mental health disorders worldwide, the role of culture in mental health, and the interventions backed by strong evidence for prevention and treatment. Students will discuss and critique study methodologies and explore the needs for future research in this emerging field. Designed for students with prior research methods and psychology coursework.	(SS) Social Sciences
22390	ENERGY	395	CONNECTIONS IN ENERGY: PROJECT	Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty supervisors to identify, refine, explore and develop solutions to pressing energy issues. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows, visiting energy fellows, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
22390	ENERGY	395	CONNECTIONS IN ENERGY: PROJECT	Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty supervisors to identify, refine, explore and develop solutions to pressing energy issues. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows, visiting energy fellows, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
22391	ENERGY	 395-1	CONNECTIONS IN ENERGY: PROJECT	Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty supervisors to identify, refine, explore and develop solutions to pressing energy issues. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows, visiting energy fellows, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
22391	ENERGY	 395-1	CONNECTIONS IN ENERGY: PROJECT	Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty supervisors to identify, refine, explore and develop solutions to pressing energy issues. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows, visiting energy fellows, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
22450	GLHLTH	361	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22450	GLHLTH	361	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(CZ) Civilizations
22450	GLHLTH	361	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(SS) Social Sciences
22450	GLHLTH	361	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22450	HISTORY	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22450	HISTORY	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(CZ) Civilizations
22450	HISTORY	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(SS) Social Sciences
22450	HISTORY	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22450	SCISOC	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22450	SCISOC	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(CZ) Civilizations
22450	SCISOC	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(SS) Social Sciences
22450	SCISOC	371	FOOD IN GLOBAL HISTORY	Surveys history of food in global history, beginning with paleolithic and ending with modern era. Focuses on food quality and quantity as a factor in determining health, including problems of global health disparities, food insecurity, and obesity. Topics include the impact of food exchanges across continents and cultures, discovery of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies, growth and impact of food industries, and the rise of diseases of plenty, such as type 2 diabetes.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22517	ISS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of ISS 390.	Seminar
22517	ISS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Seminar version of ISS 390.	Topics Course
22524	BIOCHEM	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to first-year students and sophomores with consent of supervising instructor.	(R) Research
22524	BIOCHEM	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the major product of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to first-year students and sophomores with consent of supervising instructor.	Independent Study
22525	ECON	 101D	ECONOMIC PRINCIPLES	Basic microeconomic concepts such as demand and supply, market structures, pricing and equilibrium. Conditions for market efficiency, and approaches to addressing market failures from externalities, asymmetric information and market power. Tensions between efficiency and equity. Macroeconomic concepts such as inflation, unemployment, trade, economic growth and development. Different perspectives on issues of monetary and fiscal policy. Emphasis on public policy issues and the logic behind the economic way of thinking. Open to all students.	(SS) Social Sciences
22528	ISS	292	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of both the instructor and director of undergraduate studies is required.	Independent Study
22547	ECE	290	SPECIAL TOPICS IN ECE	Study arranged on a special electrical and computer engineering topic in which the faculty has particular interest and competence as a result of research and professional activities. Instructor consent required.	Topics Course
22548	ECON	285	DENIAL, FAITH, REASON	This course investigates both theory and history of the concept of sustainability, and explores its various economic and political manifestations over time. What are the historical roots of the sustainability debate? What aspects of life do various concepts of sustainability entail, and how do they inform modern ethics? What, in the end, does the history of political economics teach us about the possibility of sustainable development?	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22548	ENVIRON	276	DENIAL, FAITH, REASON	This course investigates both theory and history of the concept of sustainability, and explores its various economic and political manifestations over time. What are the historical roots of the sustainability debate? What aspects of life do various concepts of sustainability entail, and how do they inform modern ethics? What, in the end, does the history of political economics teach us about the possibility of sustainable development?	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22548	ETHICS	285	DENIAL, FAITH, REASON	This course investigates both theory and history of the concept of sustainability, and explores its various economic and political manifestations over time. What are the historical roots of the sustainability debate? What aspects of life do various concepts of sustainability entail, and how do they inform modern ethics? What, in the end, does the history of political economics teach us about the possibility of sustainable development?	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22548	HISTORY	325	DENIAL, FAITH, REASON	This course investigates both theory and history of the concept of sustainability, and explores its various economic and political manifestations over time. What are the historical roots of the sustainability debate? What aspects of life do various concepts of sustainability entail, and how do they inform modern ethics? What, in the end, does the history of political economics teach us about the possibility of sustainable development?	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22548	PUBPOL	284	DENIAL, FAITH, REASON	This course investigates both theory and history of the concept of sustainability, and explores its various economic and political manifestations over time. What are the historical roots of the sustainability debate? What aspects of life do various concepts of sustainability entail, and how do they inform modern ethics? What, in the end, does the history of political economics teach us about the possibility of sustainable development?	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22548	SUSTAIN	276	DENIAL, FAITH, REASON	This course investigates both theory and history of the concept of sustainability, and explores its various economic and political manifestations over time. What are the historical roots of the sustainability debate? What aspects of life do various concepts of sustainability entail, and how do they inform modern ethics? What, in the end, does the history of political economics teach us about the possibility of sustainable development?	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22577	NEUROSCI	 356S	EDUCATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	Introduction to an emerging field of educational neuroscience. Discussion on how understanding brain development and cognitive development can benefit practices in education. Readings are primary journal articles drawn from fields of cognitive neuroscience and education. Prior coursework in developmental psychology, education, or neuroscience recommended. Prerequisite: Psychology 102 or Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101 or Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102.	(SS) Social Sciences
22577	NEUROSCI	 356S	EDUCATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	Introduction to an emerging field of educational neuroscience. Discussion on how understanding brain development and cognitive development can benefit practices in education. Readings are primary journal articles drawn from fields of cognitive neuroscience and education. Prior coursework in developmental psychology, education, or neuroscience recommended. Prerequisite: Psychology 102 or Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101 or Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102.	Seminar
22577	PSY	 356S	EDUCATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	Introduction to an emerging field of educational neuroscience. Discussion on how understanding brain development and cognitive development can benefit practices in education. Readings are primary journal articles drawn from fields of cognitive neuroscience and education. Prior coursework in developmental psychology, education, or neuroscience recommended. Prerequisite: Psychology 102 or Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101 or Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102.	(SS) Social Sciences
22577	PSY	 356S	EDUCATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	Introduction to an emerging field of educational neuroscience. Discussion on how understanding brain development and cognitive development can benefit practices in education. Readings are primary journal articles drawn from fields of cognitive neuroscience and education. Prior coursework in developmental psychology, education, or neuroscience recommended. Prerequisite: Psychology 102 or Psychology 106/Neuroscience 101 or Psychology 107/Neuroscience 102.	Seminar
22617	STA	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Statistics 360.	(R) Research
22617	STA	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Statistics 360.	Independent Study
22631	MILITSCI	 291-1	INDEPENDENT STUDY-HALF CREDIT	Individual study under direct faculty supervision. Written consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies is required.	Independent Study
22671	ICS	 390S	SELECTED TOPICS IN ICS	Topics vary from semester to semester, focusing either on specific world regions or particular comparative/global issues.	Seminar
22671	ICS	 390S	SELECTED TOPICS IN ICS	Topics vary from semester to semester, focusing either on specific world regions or particular comparative/global issues.	Topics Course
22672	ICS	390	SELECTED TOPICS IN ICS	Topics vary from semester to semester, focusing either on specific world regions or particular comparative/global issues.	Topics Course
22744	SES	290	SPECIAL TOP IN SLAVIC AND EURA	Subject varies from semester to semester.	Topics Course
22771	PUBPOL	494	HONORS PROJ RESEARCH IND STUDY	Individual research in field of special interest under supervision of a faculty member leading to completion of an honors thesis in Public Policy Studies. First semester requires substantive paper that outlines thesis. Second semester results in paper containing significant analysis and interpretation of the topic. Open only to students seeking honors via research independent study route. Consent of instructor and honors project director required.	(R) Research
22771	PUBPOL	494	HONORS PROJ RESEARCH IND STUDY	Individual research in field of special interest under supervision of a faculty member leading to completion of an honors thesis in Public Policy Studies. First semester requires substantive paper that outlines thesis. Second semester results in paper containing significant analysis and interpretation of the topic. Open only to students seeking honors via research independent study route. Consent of instructor and honors project director required.	Independent Study
22777	AMES	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22777	AMES	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22777	AMES	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(CZ) Civilizations
22777	AMES	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	Seminar
22777	LIT	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22777	LIT	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22777	LIT	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(CZ) Civilizations
22777	LIT	 328S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	Seminar
22777	RELIGION	 326S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22777	RELIGION	 326S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22777	RELIGION	 326S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	(CZ) Civilizations
22777	RELIGION	 326S	LITERARY ISLAM	The Quran as scripture; mystical poetry; stories of the early community; literary cultures in the early community; modern reinterpretations of Islamic sources; Islamist literature; modern Islamic poetry, novels, plays, and stories.	Seminar
22823	PHYSICS	 161D	FUNDAMENTALS OF PHYSICS I	First semester of a two-semester sequence intended for potential physics or biophysics majors. Course discusses vector algebra, description of motion, Newton's laws, work and energy, systems of particles, conservation laws, rotation, gravity, mechanics of fluids, oscillations, mechanical waves, and sound. Prerequisites: Mathematics 21 and 122 or equivalents; Mathematics 122 may be taken concurrently. Recommended that course is taken concurrently with Physics 164L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
22823	PHYSICS	 161D	FUNDAMENTALS OF PHYSICS I	First semester of a two-semester sequence intended for potential physics or biophysics majors. Course discusses vector algebra, description of motion, Newton's laws, work and energy, systems of particles, conservation laws, rotation, gravity, mechanics of fluids, oscillations, mechanical waves, and sound. Prerequisites: Mathematics 21 and 122 or equivalents; Mathematics 122 may be taken concurrently. Recommended that course is taken concurrently with Physics 164L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
22829	SOCIOL	250	MEDICAL SOCIOLOGY	Interface between sociology and health-related issues. Analysis of macro, mezzo, and micro perspectives as they apply to health and illness. Examination of the social and cultural context in which health care in the United States is delivered, particularly in terms of racial and age disparities, as well as disparities in rural and urban healthcare settings. Objective and subjective experience of health and illness, political, economic and environmental issues, including engagement with ethical issues around end of life care, physician assisted suicide, health rights versus health privileges. Exposure to these areas takes place theoretically in class, as well as in real-world settings.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22829	SOCIOL	250	MEDICAL SOCIOLOGY	Interface between sociology and health-related issues. Analysis of macro, mezzo, and micro perspectives as they apply to health and illness. Examination of the social and cultural context in which health care in the United States is delivered, particularly in terms of racial and age disparities, as well as disparities in rural and urban healthcare settings. Objective and subjective experience of health and illness, political, economic and environmental issues, including engagement with ethical issues around end of life care, physician assisted suicide, health rights versus health privileges. Exposure to these areas takes place theoretically in class, as well as in real-world settings.	(SS) Social Sciences
22831	POLSCI	 352S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22831	POLSCI	 352S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22831	POLSCI	 352S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
22831	POLSCI	 352S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	Seminar
22831	PUBPOL	 353S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22831	PUBPOL	 353S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22831	PUBPOL	 353S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
22831	PUBPOL	 353S	U.S. POLICY IN MIDDLE EAST	U.S. foreign policy: Middle East; Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict; oil and security; cold war; military cooperation and intervention; aid and democracy promotion; Iran, the Arab Spring; realism vs. liberalism in US foreign policy.	Seminar
22838	CULANTH	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(NS) Natural Sciences
22838	CULANTH	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22838	GSF	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(NS) Natural Sciences
22838	GSF	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22838	NEUROSCI	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(NS) Natural Sciences
22838	NEUROSCI	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22838	PSY	226	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(NS) Natural Sciences
22838	PSY	226	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22838	SXL	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(NS) Natural Sciences
22838	SXL	278	SEX/GENDER - NATURE/NURTURE	Debates about sexuality, sex, and gender hinge on radically different ideas about relative effects of biological forces vs. social forces, or nature vs. nurture. Course changes terms of arguments about sexuality and gender and nature/nurture. Explores how nature/nurture emerged as scientific and popular debate. Evaluates new developments in science and cultural fields that are now reconsidering how biology and environments interact. Showcases debates about how sex and sexuality are formed through interplay of genetic information, hormones, material bodies, and social environments.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
22869	ENGLISH	 190S-1	SP TOP IN LANG & LIT	Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
22869	ENGLISH	 190S-1	SP TOP IN LANG & LIT	Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
22879	ENVIRON	265	ENVIRONMENTAL LAW AND POLICY	Legal principles governing environmental problems in the United States, including endangered species, hazardous waste, air pollution. Introduction to the overarching topics in law and in regulatory design that shape the contributions and roles law plays in solutions to environmental problems.	(SS) Social Sciences
22920	AAAS	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22920	AAAS	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22920	AAAS	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(SS) Social Sciences
22920	AAAS	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(W) Writing
22920	AAAS	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	Seminar
22920	CULANTH	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22920	CULANTH	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22920	CULANTH	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(SS) Social Sciences
22920	CULANTH	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(W) Writing
22920	CULANTH	 221SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	Seminar
22920	DANCE	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22920	DANCE	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22920	DANCE	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(SS) Social Sciences
22920	DANCE	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(W) Writing
22920	DANCE	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	Seminar
22920	ROMST	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22920	ROMST	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22920	ROMST	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(SS) Social Sciences
22920	ROMST	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	(W) Writing
22920	ROMST	 235SL	CAPOEIRA: PRACTICE AND CULTURE	Lecture/lab course introducing the movement, music and culture of capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines dance, self-defense and acrobatics. Created by male African slaves in Brazil several hundred years ago, viewed as a social threat and outlawed in the 19th century, celebrated as an element of national identity in the 20th century, today capoeira is rapidly crossing national, racial and gender borders as it becomes a popular global practice. Studio classes twice a week focus on the basic movements, percussive music and call-and-response singing. Seminar once a week focuses on the historical, cultural and socio-political dynamics that shape capoeira in Brazil and beyond.	Seminar
22931	AAAS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22931	AAAS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22931	AAAS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(CZ) Civilizations
22931	AAAS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22931	AAAS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(R) Research
22931	LIT	343	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22931	LIT	343	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22931	LIT	343	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(CZ) Civilizations
22931	LIT	343	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22931	LIT	343	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(R) Research
22931	RIGHTS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22931	RIGHTS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22931	RIGHTS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(CZ) Civilizations
22931	RIGHTS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22931	RIGHTS	345	MASS INCARCERATION/CITIZENSHIP	Explores in depth the presence of African Americans within the phenomenon of U.S. mass incarceration and its implications for notions of citizenship. Surveys the history of prison build-up resulting from legislation and policy over the past forty years including the governmental discussions of drug policy and welfare reform that disproportionately affected African Americans. Course will explore definitions of citizenship and the means by which African American citizens were and are both included in and excluded from participation in the movement toward mass incarceration as part of their changing position in the U.S. polity.	(R) Research
22932	ITALIAN	225	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22932	ITALIAN	225	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22932	ITALIAN	225	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CZ) Civilizations
22932	ITALIAN	225	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(R) Research
22932	LIT	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22932	LIT	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22932	LIT	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CZ) Civilizations
22932	LIT	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(R) Research
22932	MEDREN	304	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22932	MEDREN	304	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22932	MEDREN	304	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CZ) Civilizations
22932	MEDREN	304	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(R) Research
22932	ROMST	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
22932	ROMST	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22932	ROMST	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(CZ) Civilizations
22932	ROMST	205	THE PROBLEM OF LOVE	Love causes problems. It can inspire passion or madness; foster alliances, destroy friendships, provoke war, broker peace. It impacts communities and raises fundamental questions about life. Exploring amorous discourse from two millennia Plato's erotic ascent, Virgil's deceived Dido, Ovid's rules of seduction, Boccaccio's legitimation of female desire, Michelangelo's homoerotic poetry, Leonardo's sublimated impulses, Foscolo's tragic obsession, comic uncertainties of Svevo's modern lovers, and love from afar in Montalewe will see what changes, what persists, and ultimately come to understand what we mean when we talk about love today.	(R) Research
22935	FRENCH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22935	FRENCH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
22935	FRENCH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22935	FRENCH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
22935	FRENCH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
22935	FRENCH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	Seminar
22935	GLHLTH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22935	GLHLTH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
22935	GLHLTH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22935	GLHLTH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
22935	GLHLTH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
22935	GLHLTH	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	Seminar
22935	ICS	 332S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22935	ICS	 332S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
22935	ICS	 332S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22935	ICS	 332S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
22935	ICS	 332S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
22935	ICS	 332S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	Seminar
22935	PUBPOL	 316S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22935	PUBPOL	 316S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
22935	PUBPOL	 316S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22935	PUBPOL	 316S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
22935	PUBPOL	 316S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
22935	PUBPOL	 316S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	Seminar
22935	RIGHTS	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22935	RIGHTS	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
22935	RIGHTS	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
22935	RIGHTS	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
22935	RIGHTS	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
22935	RIGHTS	 325S	GLBL DISPLACEMENT: VOIX FRANC	Explores migration and resettlement of Francophone refugees in North America through examination of current policy, law, and practice. Analysis of personal interviews and narratives with attention to ethical questions related to politics of listening to and speaking for other communities. Community-based language component (20 hours) engages students with refugee community in Durham. Conducted in French. Recommended prerequisite: one course at 300-level or equivalent.	Seminar
22955	SPANISH	313	BRIDGING CULTURES	Exploration of key issues surrounding Latino communities in Durham and beyond, focusing on issues of culture and immigration, health, education, economy. Course includes a minimum of 15 hours of service-learning with a local organization, plus other out-of-class and weekend community trips. Projects promote the development of intercultural competence, as well as facilitate opportunities for building bridges with the local community. Assessment based on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish, and community engagement. Previous 300-level course is recommended before taking this class. Minimum requirement: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
22955	SPANISH	313	BRIDGING CULTURES	Exploration of key issues surrounding Latino communities in Durham and beyond, focusing on issues of culture and immigration, health, education, economy. Course includes a minimum of 15 hours of service-learning with a local organization, plus other out-of-class and weekend community trips. Projects promote the development of intercultural competence, as well as facilitate opportunities for building bridges with the local community. Assessment based on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish, and community engagement. Previous 300-level course is recommended before taking this class. Minimum requirement: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
22955	SPANISH	313	BRIDGING CULTURES	Exploration of key issues surrounding Latino communities in Durham and beyond, focusing on issues of culture and immigration, health, education, economy. Course includes a minimum of 15 hours of service-learning with a local organization, plus other out-of-class and weekend community trips. Projects promote the development of intercultural competence, as well as facilitate opportunities for building bridges with the local community. Assessment based on knowledge of content, oral and written Spanish, and community engagement. Previous 300-level course is recommended before taking this class. Minimum requirement: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(SS) Social Sciences
22999	I&E	290	SPECIAL TOPICS	Selected topics in innovation and entrepreneurship.	Topics Course
23013	BME	 290L	INTERMEDIATE TOPICS WITH LAB	Intermediate subjects or selective topics related to programs within biomedical engineering. The course includes laboratory exercises. Consent of instructor required.	Topics Course
23134	ENGLISH	 290-7	SP TOP IN LANG & LIT	Area requirements for majors to be determined by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in English.	Topics Course
23150	ROMST	 290S	TOPICS IN ROMANCE STUDIES	A comparative study of languages, literatures, and/or cultures related to Romance Studies.	Seminar
23150	ROMST	 290S	TOPICS IN ROMANCE STUDIES	A comparative study of languages, literatures, and/or cultures related to Romance Studies.	Topics Course
23168	ETHICS	 315S	PHILOSOPHY/ETHICS OF SPORT	An examination of ethical issues and dilemmas of sport in the modern world. Topics to be discussed include amateurism, the NCAA and college athletics, performance enhancement, money in college and professional sport, gambling, the athlete as a role model, and the coach as sage. Inevitably, consideration of these issues will lead to a discussion of wider issues, such as the value of sport and the role of sport in the 'good life'. Students will write two short papers examining particular ethical dilemmas, and will write a longer term-ending paper which evaluates in depth one of the issues raised in the course of the semester. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
23168	ETHICS	 315S	PHILOSOPHY/ETHICS OF SPORT	An examination of ethical issues and dilemmas of sport in the modern world. Topics to be discussed include amateurism, the NCAA and college athletics, performance enhancement, money in college and professional sport, gambling, the athlete as a role model, and the coach as sage. Inevitably, consideration of these issues will lead to a discussion of wider issues, such as the value of sport and the role of sport in the 'good life'. Students will write two short papers examining particular ethical dilemmas, and will write a longer term-ending paper which evaluates in depth one of the issues raised in the course of the semester. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23168	ETHICS	 315S	PHILOSOPHY/ETHICS OF SPORT	An examination of ethical issues and dilemmas of sport in the modern world. Topics to be discussed include amateurism, the NCAA and college athletics, performance enhancement, money in college and professional sport, gambling, the athlete as a role model, and the coach as sage. Inevitably, consideration of these issues will lead to a discussion of wider issues, such as the value of sport and the role of sport in the 'good life'. Students will write two short papers examining particular ethical dilemmas, and will write a longer term-ending paper which evaluates in depth one of the issues raised in the course of the semester. Instructor consent required.	(W) Writing
23168	ETHICS	 315S	PHILOSOPHY/ETHICS OF SPORT	An examination of ethical issues and dilemmas of sport in the modern world. Topics to be discussed include amateurism, the NCAA and college athletics, performance enhancement, money in college and professional sport, gambling, the athlete as a role model, and the coach as sage. Inevitably, consideration of these issues will lead to a discussion of wider issues, such as the value of sport and the role of sport in the 'good life'. Students will write two short papers examining particular ethical dilemmas, and will write a longer term-ending paper which evaluates in depth one of the issues raised in the course of the semester. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23172	EGR	393	RESEARCH PROJECTS IN EGR	Individual research projects in engineering under the guidance and supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
23172	EGR	393	RESEARCH PROJECTS IN EGR	Individual research projects in engineering under the guidance and supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
23207	AMES	144	ISRAELI CULTURE	Surveys of Israeli culture from the late 1940s to the present. Examines Israeli fiction, cinema, popular music, visual culture. Major themes include ethnicity, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, class, the Jewish Holocaust, religion and secularism. Legal and economic aspects of culture.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23207	AMES	144	ISRAELI CULTURE	Surveys of Israeli culture from the late 1940s to the present. Examines Israeli fiction, cinema, popular music, visual culture. Major themes include ethnicity, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, class, the Jewish Holocaust, religion and secularism. Legal and economic aspects of culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23207	AMES	144	ISRAELI CULTURE	Surveys of Israeli culture from the late 1940s to the present. Examines Israeli fiction, cinema, popular music, visual culture. Major themes include ethnicity, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, class, the Jewish Holocaust, religion and secularism. Legal and economic aspects of culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
23207	JEWISHST	245	ISRAELI CULTURE	Surveys of Israeli culture from the late 1940s to the present. Examines Israeli fiction, cinema, popular music, visual culture. Major themes include ethnicity, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, class, the Jewish Holocaust, religion and secularism. Legal and economic aspects of culture.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23207	JEWISHST	245	ISRAELI CULTURE	Surveys of Israeli culture from the late 1940s to the present. Examines Israeli fiction, cinema, popular music, visual culture. Major themes include ethnicity, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, class, the Jewish Holocaust, religion and secularism. Legal and economic aspects of culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23207	JEWISHST	245	ISRAELI CULTURE	Surveys of Israeli culture from the late 1940s to the present. Examines Israeli fiction, cinema, popular music, visual culture. Major themes include ethnicity, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, class, the Jewish Holocaust, religion and secularism. Legal and economic aspects of culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
23211	ENGLISH	 331S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23211	ENGLISH	 331S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23211	ENGLISH	 331S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(CZ) Civilizations
23211	ENGLISH	 331S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23211	ENGLISH	 331S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	Seminar
23211	MEDREN	 334S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23211	MEDREN	 334S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23211	MEDREN	 334S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(CZ) Civilizations
23211	MEDREN	 334S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23211	MEDREN	 334S	LATE MDVL LIT/CULTURE	Explores a range of medieval writings together with the culture in which they are made. Inquiries involve the close reading of medieval texts to learn about medieval Christianity, ethics, politics and theology in the culture. Considers questions concerning relations between the medieval world and our own.	Seminar
23220	AAAS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23220	AAAS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CZ) Civilizations
23220	AAAS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23220	AAAS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(SS) Social Sciences
23220	CULANTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23220	CULANTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CZ) Civilizations
23220	CULANTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23220	CULANTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(SS) Social Sciences
23220	GLHLTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23220	GLHLTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CZ) Civilizations
23220	GLHLTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23220	GLHLTH	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(SS) Social Sciences
23220	PUBPOL	333	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23220	PUBPOL	333	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CZ) Civilizations
23220	PUBPOL	333	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23220	PUBPOL	333	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(SS) Social Sciences
23220	RIGHTS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23220	RIGHTS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(CZ) Civilizations
23220	RIGHTS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23220	RIGHTS	312	WAR & PUBLIC HEALTH IN AFRICA	An inquiry into the nature of contemporary war in sub-Saharan Africa and its human cost. Uses public health as a parameter to assess the impact of organized collective violence on people's lives. Link between war and public health established and measured with respect to civilian deaths, gender based violence, physical and psychological trauma, mental disorders, malnutrition and famine, and the spread of epidemic diseases, inter alia HIV/AIDS. Special attention is paid to rape as 'a weapon of war', to the trafficking of human beings in war zones, the child soldier phenomenon, and to death counts as a vector of humanitarian or political advocacy.	(SS) Social Sciences
23222	ARTHIST	254	RENAISSANCE ARCHITECTURE	Surveys panorama of European architectural theory and production in fifteenth and sixteenth centuries within a broad geographical area including Italy, France, Spain, Germany, Poland, the Low Countries, and England. Course objectives are to insure knowledge of Renaissance architectural production, related historiography, and contemporary debate and scholarship as well as develop students' analytical and research skills. Reading materials organized chronologically to facilitate students' approach to the field of architectural history, while a thematic, case-study based approach will prevail in class.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23222	ARTHIST	254	RENAISSANCE ARCHITECTURE	Surveys panorama of European architectural theory and production in fifteenth and sixteenth centuries within a broad geographical area including Italy, France, Spain, Germany, Poland, the Low Countries, and England. Course objectives are to insure knowledge of Renaissance architectural production, related historiography, and contemporary debate and scholarship as well as develop students' analytical and research skills. Reading materials organized chronologically to facilitate students' approach to the field of architectural history, while a thematic, case-study based approach will prevail in class.	(CZ) Civilizations
23222	MEDREN	244	RENAISSANCE ARCHITECTURE	Surveys panorama of European architectural theory and production in fifteenth and sixteenth centuries within a broad geographical area including Italy, France, Spain, Germany, Poland, the Low Countries, and England. Course objectives are to insure knowledge of Renaissance architectural production, related historiography, and contemporary debate and scholarship as well as develop students' analytical and research skills. Reading materials organized chronologically to facilitate students' approach to the field of architectural history, while a thematic, case-study based approach will prevail in class.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23222	MEDREN	244	RENAISSANCE ARCHITECTURE	Surveys panorama of European architectural theory and production in fifteenth and sixteenth centuries within a broad geographical area including Italy, France, Spain, Germany, Poland, the Low Countries, and England. Course objectives are to insure knowledge of Renaissance architectural production, related historiography, and contemporary debate and scholarship as well as develop students' analytical and research skills. Reading materials organized chronologically to facilitate students' approach to the field of architectural history, while a thematic, case-study based approach will prevail in class.	(CZ) Civilizations
23236	BIOLOGY	218	BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS	From sleep/wake cycles to flower openings to cell division and malaria infections, all organisms and cells display rhythmic behaviors. The course will focus on genetic and molecular networks that comprise clocks regulating cell division and circadian rhythms. Quantitative aspects of clock networks will be examined from the perspective of data analysis and dynamical systems models. Class will include lectures, primary literature readings, and in-class projects. Recommended prerequisite: Math 112L or equivalent, and Biology 20, 21, 201L, or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
23236	BIOLOGY	218	BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS	From sleep/wake cycles to flower openings to cell division and malaria infections, all organisms and cells display rhythmic behaviors. The course will focus on genetic and molecular networks that comprise clocks regulating cell division and circadian rhythms. Quantitative aspects of clock networks will be examined from the perspective of data analysis and dynamical systems models. Class will include lectures, primary literature readings, and in-class projects. Recommended prerequisite: Math 112L or equivalent, and Biology 20, 21, 201L, or 203L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
23236	MATH	183	BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS	From sleep/wake cycles to flower openings to cell division and malaria infections, all organisms and cells display rhythmic behaviors. The course will focus on genetic and molecular networks that comprise clocks regulating cell division and circadian rhythms. Quantitative aspects of clock networks will be examined from the perspective of data analysis and dynamical systems models. Class will include lectures, primary literature readings, and in-class projects. Recommended prerequisite: Math 112L or equivalent, and Biology 20, 21, 201L, or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
23236	MATH	183	BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS	From sleep/wake cycles to flower openings to cell division and malaria infections, all organisms and cells display rhythmic behaviors. The course will focus on genetic and molecular networks that comprise clocks regulating cell division and circadian rhythms. Quantitative aspects of clock networks will be examined from the perspective of data analysis and dynamical systems models. Class will include lectures, primary literature readings, and in-class projects. Recommended prerequisite: Math 112L or equivalent, and Biology 20, 21, 201L, or 203L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
23264	COMPSCI	216	EVERYTHING DATA	Study of data and its acquisition, integration, querying, analysis, and visualization. Concepts and computational tools for working with unstructured, semi-structured, and structured data and databases. Interdisciplinary perspectives of data and its impact crossing science, humanities, policy, and social science. Culminating team project applied to real datasets. Prerequisite: 200-level computer science OR 100-level Statistics OR 200-level Math course, or permission of instructor.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
23267	I&E	352	INNOVATION & ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Course covers component elements of developing skills needed to launch a venture. Starting at the point of need identification, course covers lean methodology; innovation and entrepreneurship strategy; creating needed financing and resource structures; effectively marketing/communicating innovation and its associated benefits; leading, managing, and working effectively within teams; creating a positive and ethical work culture; and evaluating success. Materials for class discussion are case studies and readings. Course is only open to Innovation & Entrepreneurship Certificate students.	(SS) Social Sciences
23278	ROMST	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR ROMANCE ST	Topics vary each semester offered. This course is restricted to first-year students.	Seminar
23278	ROMST	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR ROMANCE ST	Topics vary each semester offered. This course is restricted to first-year students.	Topics Course
23281	ETHICS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23281	ETHICS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(R) Research
23281	ETHICS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(W) Writing
23281	ETHICS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	Seminar
23281	ICS	 317S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23281	ICS	 317S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(R) Research
23281	ICS	 317S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(W) Writing
23281	ICS	 317S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	Seminar
23281	POLSCI	 341S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23281	POLSCI	 341S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(R) Research
23281	POLSCI	 341S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(W) Writing
23281	POLSCI	 341S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	Seminar
23281	PUBPOL	 311S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23281	PUBPOL	 311S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(R) Research
23281	PUBPOL	 311S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(W) Writing
23281	PUBPOL	 311S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	Seminar
23281	RIGHTS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23281	RIGHTS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(R) Research
23281	RIGHTS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	(W) Writing
23281	RIGHTS	 301S	BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS	An exploration of human rights advocacy from a legal, political science and comparative perspective. Will focus on issues related to corporate accountability. A core component of the course will include a human rights 'lab' in which students work in teams on policy-oriented projects, potentially in collaboration with community partners.	Seminar
23286	PSY	 490S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Topics differ by section.	Seminar
23286	PSY	 490S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Topics differ by section.	Topics Course
23321	AMES	210	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23321	AMES	210	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23321	AMES	210	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(CZ) Civilizations
23321	CULANTH	209	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23321	CULANTH	209	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23321	CULANTH	209	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(CZ) Civilizations
23321	LIT	251	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23321	LIT	251	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23321	LIT	251	ARAB CULTURES	Explore different facets of modern and contemporary Arab cultures; memoirs, novels, prison notebooks, films, comic books, theoretical tracts, music, psychiatric case-studies, histories, and ethnographies; consider how authors depict key historical transformations taking place in the Arab world; different angles through which political questions are tackled; the negotiation between self and other.	(CZ) Civilizations
23342	ISS	290	SPECIAL TOPICS	Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
23351	GLHLTH	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary depending on semester and section. Topics may include: global health ethics, field methods, health technologies, rapid needs assessment, and global health policies.	Seminar
23351	GLHLTH	  89S	FIRST YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	Topics vary depending on semester and section. Topics may include: global health ethics, field methods, health technologies, rapid needs assessment, and global health policies.	Topics Course
23405	ENGLISH	 290S	SP TOP IN LANG. & LIT	Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
23405	ENGLISH	 290S	SP TOP IN LANG. & LIT	Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
23421	PJMS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR	Topics vary.	Seminar
23421	PJMS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR	Topics vary.	Topics Course
23444	I&E	261	SOCIAL INNOVATION	This course will provide an introduction to the field of social innovation. Through readings, classroom discussion, experiential learning, and individual and team assignments, the course will provide students with concepts and frameworks for understanding and practicing effective social innovation. The course develops a theory of innovation and describes examples of persons and organizations demonstrating innovative approaches. We will look at how to innovate effectively and the attributes and skills that cultivate such innovation. We will also explore the limitations of social innovation and consider critical arguments that the field must address.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23444	I&E	261	SOCIAL INNOVATION	This course will provide an introduction to the field of social innovation. Through readings, classroom discussion, experiential learning, and individual and team assignments, the course will provide students with concepts and frameworks for understanding and practicing effective social innovation. The course develops a theory of innovation and describes examples of persons and organizations demonstrating innovative approaches. We will look at how to innovate effectively and the attributes and skills that cultivate such innovation. We will also explore the limitations of social innovation and consider critical arguments that the field must address.	(SS) Social Sciences
23444	PUBPOL	256	SOCIAL INNOVATION	This course will provide an introduction to the field of social innovation. Through readings, classroom discussion, experiential learning, and individual and team assignments, the course will provide students with concepts and frameworks for understanding and practicing effective social innovation. The course develops a theory of innovation and describes examples of persons and organizations demonstrating innovative approaches. We will look at how to innovate effectively and the attributes and skills that cultivate such innovation. We will also explore the limitations of social innovation and consider critical arguments that the field must address.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23444	PUBPOL	256	SOCIAL INNOVATION	This course will provide an introduction to the field of social innovation. Through readings, classroom discussion, experiential learning, and individual and team assignments, the course will provide students with concepts and frameworks for understanding and practicing effective social innovation. The course develops a theory of innovation and describes examples of persons and organizations demonstrating innovative approaches. We will look at how to innovate effectively and the attributes and skills that cultivate such innovation. We will also explore the limitations of social innovation and consider critical arguments that the field must address.	(SS) Social Sciences
23472	KICHE	101	ELEMENTARY K'ICHE' MAYA I	Introduction to essential elements of K'iche' Maya language and aspects of Maya culture. K'iche' Maya, a language spoken by about a million people in the western Highlands of Guatemala, is one of the major indigenous languages in the Americas. Emphasis on active language production to develop basic conversational skills for everyday interactions. Course taught at Vanderbilt University; Duke students participate through video conference and/or telepresence classroom. No prerequisite.	(FL) Foreign Language
23524	ARTHIST	 455S	CURATORIAL PRACTICUM	The conceptualization and execution of museum exhibitions. Exploring theory and practicalities of exhibition conception, strategies, and approaches. Development of full exhibition proposals including checklists, exhibition text, exhibition design, fundraising, audience engagement, and programming. Visits to regional museums and galleries. Prerequisites: ARTHIST 310 and one of the following: ARTHIST 220, ARTHIST 221S or ARTHIST 222S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23524	ARTHIST	 455S	CURATORIAL PRACTICUM	The conceptualization and execution of museum exhibitions. Exploring theory and practicalities of exhibition conception, strategies, and approaches. Development of full exhibition proposals including checklists, exhibition text, exhibition design, fundraising, audience engagement, and programming. Visits to regional museums and galleries. Prerequisites: ARTHIST 310 and one of the following: ARTHIST 220, ARTHIST 221S or ARTHIST 222S.	Seminar
23532	CEE	293	RESEARCH INDEP STUDY IN CEE	Research project mentored by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Course may be taken by students who have demonstrated aptitude for independent work. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
23532	CEE	293	RESEARCH INDEP STUDY IN CEE	Research project mentored by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Course may be taken by students who have demonstrated aptitude for independent work. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
23536	HISTORY	355	AMERICAN INDIANS TO 1815	Examines images and realities of North American Indian cultures and history from the pre-Columbian period, through the period of European-Indian contact in the 16th, 17th, & 18th centuries, to the first imperial expansion of the new U.S. nation in the 1810s. Constructions of cultural identity; diplomacy and warfare between Indian nations and European invaders; trade, exchange networks, and Indian political economies; dynamics of cultural change, stability, and transformation as American Indians responded to and resisted Euro-American attempts at religious and cultural conversion, and political and economic conquest.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23536	HISTORY	355	AMERICAN INDIANS TO 1815	Examines images and realities of North American Indian cultures and history from the pre-Columbian period, through the period of European-Indian contact in the 16th, 17th, & 18th centuries, to the first imperial expansion of the new U.S. nation in the 1810s. Constructions of cultural identity; diplomacy and warfare between Indian nations and European invaders; trade, exchange networks, and Indian political economies; dynamics of cultural change, stability, and transformation as American Indians responded to and resisted Euro-American attempts at religious and cultural conversion, and political and economic conquest.	(CZ) Civilizations
23539	MGM	 120FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23539	MGM	 120FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
23539	MGM	 120FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
23539	MGM	 120FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23539	PUBPOL	 186FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23539	PUBPOL	 186FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
23539	PUBPOL	 186FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
23539	PUBPOL	 186FS	ETHICS OF GENOME RESEARCH	This course will examine the ethical implications raised by genetic and genomic research. Students will gain an understanding of the historical basis of human subjects' protections in the United States, the ethical pillars of research, and the issues that arise from genetics and genomics research. Case studies in genomics research will be used to illustrate various ethical implications. Readings will consist of reviews of the history of human subjects' protections, federal regulations, actual informed consent documents, and scientific papers from the primary literature. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23541	CEE	393	RESEARCH INDEP STUDY IN CEE	Research project mentored by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Course may be taken by junior and senior students who have demonstrated aptitude for independent work. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
23541	CEE	393	RESEARCH INDEP STUDY IN CEE	Research project mentored by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Course may be taken by junior and senior students who have demonstrated aptitude for independent work. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
23542	STA	 440L	CASE STUDIES	Students apply statistical analysis skills to in-depth data analysis projects ranging across diverse application areas including but not limited to energy, environmental sustainability, global health, information and culture, brain sciences, and social networks. Students practice cutting-edge statistical methods and communicate their results both technically and non-technically via presentations and written reports. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
23542	STA	 440L	CASE STUDIES	Students apply statistical analysis skills to in-depth data analysis projects ranging across diverse application areas including but not limited to energy, environmental sustainability, global health, information and culture, brain sciences, and social networks. Students practice cutting-edge statistical methods and communicate their results both technically and non-technically via presentations and written reports. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360.	(R) Research
23542	STA	 440L	CASE STUDIES	Students apply statistical analysis skills to in-depth data analysis projects ranging across diverse application areas including but not limited to energy, environmental sustainability, global health, information and culture, brain sciences, and social networks. Students practice cutting-edge statistical methods and communicate their results both technically and non-technically via presentations and written reports. Prerequisite: Statistical Science 360.	(W) Writing
23546	CEE	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY IN CEE	Study arranged on a special topic by an instructor with related interests and expertise. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
23562	PHYSEDU	207	EXERCISE AND MENTAL HEALTH	Examines the neural and psychological correlates of exercise that influence mental and cognitive health. Explores exercise guidelines and theories of exercise behaviors. Topics include exercise and depression, anxiety, stress, self-esteem, body image, circadian rhythms, learning, dementia, and mental states and performance.	(NS) Natural Sciences
23562	PSY	214	EXERCISE AND MENTAL HEALTH	Examines the neural and psychological correlates of exercise that influence mental and cognitive health. Explores exercise guidelines and theories of exercise behaviors. Topics include exercise and depression, anxiety, stress, self-esteem, body image, circadian rhythms, learning, dementia, and mental states and performance.	(NS) Natural Sciences
23563	CINE	142	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23563	CINE	142	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(SS) Social Sciences
23563	GSF	198	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23563	GSF	198	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(SS) Social Sciences
23563	LIT	199	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23563	LIT	199	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(SS) Social Sciences
23563	VMS	199	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23563	VMS	199	LGBTQ/QUEER CINEMA	This class investigates LGBTQ identities, communities and relationships pre, post, and during the Stonewall era through cinema, television, and new media. We will also explore constructions of sexuality, gender, class, race, and nationalism within the context of LGBTQ transnational film cultures and scholarship.	(SS) Social Sciences
23567	POLSCI	 172FS	US RACIAL ATTITUDES & POLITICS	Course considers the different conceptions and definitions of racial attitudes and racial prejudice in the United States. Compares across the disciplines of social psychology, sociology, and political science, acknowledging debates about both the sources and consequences of these attitudes. Focuses on how in the present day, different theories lead to different understanding of racial conflict and its political consequences. Discusses how racial attitudes, prejudice, and conflict may be mitigated in political world. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23567	POLSCI	 172FS	US RACIAL ATTITUDES & POLITICS	Course considers the different conceptions and definitions of racial attitudes and racial prejudice in the United States. Compares across the disciplines of social psychology, sociology, and political science, acknowledging debates about both the sources and consequences of these attitudes. Focuses on how in the present day, different theories lead to different understanding of racial conflict and its political consequences. Discusses how racial attitudes, prejudice, and conflict may be mitigated in political world. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23567	POLSCI	 172FS	US RACIAL ATTITUDES & POLITICS	Course considers the different conceptions and definitions of racial attitudes and racial prejudice in the United States. Compares across the disciplines of social psychology, sociology, and political science, acknowledging debates about both the sources and consequences of these attitudes. Focuses on how in the present day, different theories lead to different understanding of racial conflict and its political consequences. Discusses how racial attitudes, prejudice, and conflict may be mitigated in political world. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
23567	POLSCI	 172FS	US RACIAL ATTITUDES & POLITICS	Course considers the different conceptions and definitions of racial attitudes and racial prejudice in the United States. Compares across the disciplines of social psychology, sociology, and political science, acknowledging debates about both the sources and consequences of these attitudes. Focuses on how in the present day, different theories lead to different understanding of racial conflict and its political consequences. Discusses how racial attitudes, prejudice, and conflict may be mitigated in political world. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
23572	MMS	380	ENTREPRENEURIAL MARKETING	Teaches students how to discover and understand customer wants and needs, understand the impacts of the market environment on customer behavior and product acceptance, define products that will meet customer needs, choose the right distribution channels, price and promote the product or service effectively, understand the unique ways in which the marketing process must be tailored to an entrepreneurial environment.	(SS) Social Sciences
23578	BIOLOGY	 209-1	THE ECOLOGY OF HUMAN HEALTH	Humans are the dominant species on Earth and ecology is key to understanding the multiple feedbacks through which their activities affect human health. Fundamental principles of ecology, from population to ecosystem levels, will be examined through the lens of human health. Topics include human population growth and carrying capacity, why we age, infectious disease dynamics, the microbiome and human health, sustainable agriculture and food security, sustainable harvest of wild foods, dynamics of pollutants in food webs, ecosystem services to humans, and human impacts of climate change. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209 or Biology 209D-2.	(NS) Natural Sciences
23578	BIOLOGY	 209-1	THE ECOLOGY OF HUMAN HEALTH	Humans are the dominant species on Earth and ecology is key to understanding the multiple feedbacks through which their activities affect human health. Fundamental principles of ecology, from population to ecosystem levels, will be examined through the lens of human health. Topics include human population growth and carrying capacity, why we age, infectious disease dynamics, the microbiome and human health, sustainable agriculture and food security, sustainable harvest of wild foods, dynamics of pollutants in food webs, ecosystem services to humans, and human impacts of climate change. Not open to students who have taken Biology 209 or Biology 209D-2.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
23604	AMES	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23604	AMES	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23604	AMES	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
23604	AMES	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23604	JEWISHST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23604	JEWISHST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23604	JEWISHST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
23604	JEWISHST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23604	MEDREN	 352S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23604	MEDREN	 352S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23604	MEDREN	 352S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
23604	MEDREN	 352S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23604	RELIGION	 214S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23604	RELIGION	 214S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23604	RELIGION	 214S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
23604	RELIGION	 214S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23604	ROMST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23604	ROMST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23604	ROMST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
23604	ROMST	 319S	ANDALUSIA	Intersection of cultures, religions, languages, & peoples through history, poetry, music, architecture, & philosophy in Spain. Cultural flourishing from the contactand sometimes clashof European, Spanish, Islamic, Arab, African, Middle Eastern, and Jewish civilizations and Arabic, Spanish, and Hebrew languages. Ends with Andalusian culture in modern music, poetry, art, dance, & architecture at the crossroads of civilizations. Includes travel to Spain over spring break so students witness firsthand the coexistence of different religious traditions and cultures. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
23638	DECSCI	101	FNDMNTLS OF DECISION SCIENCE	This course is a question-driven introduction to the certificate and the fundamentals of how humans make decisions. The primary goal is to provide hands-on and problem-focused instruction designed to connect students to research as quickly as possible. Substantive topics include behavioral and experimental economics, consumer behavior and marketing research, game theory, medical decision making, neuroeconomics, and political psychology.	(SS) Social Sciences
23638	PSY	141	FNDMNTLS OF DECISION SCIENCE	This course is a question-driven introduction to the certificate and the fundamentals of how humans make decisions. The primary goal is to provide hands-on and problem-focused instruction designed to connect students to research as quickly as possible. Substantive topics include behavioral and experimental economics, consumer behavior and marketing research, game theory, medical decision making, neuroeconomics, and political psychology.	(SS) Social Sciences
23652	AAAS	 228S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23652	AAAS	 228S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23652	AAAS	 228S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(CZ) Civilizations
23652	AAAS	 228S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23652	AAAS	 228S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(R) Research
23652	AAAS	 228S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	Seminar
23652	ENGLISH	 379S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23652	ENGLISH	 379S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23652	ENGLISH	 379S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(CZ) Civilizations
23652	ENGLISH	 379S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23652	ENGLISH	 379S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(R) Research
23652	ENGLISH	 379S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	Seminar
23652	LIT	 382S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23652	LIT	 382S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23652	LIT	 382S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(CZ) Civilizations
23652	LIT	 382S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23652	LIT	 382S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	(R) Research
23652	LIT	 382S	FICTIONS THAT MARK THE MOMENT	Course is an engagement with novels from spectacular moments of history, an imagination of the future, a response to narrative conventions of realism and thinking with and against the grain of social understandings. Look at examples of historical, speculative, postcolonial, experimental, science, magical realist fictions and theoretical work. Will consider the means by which narratives produce or rely on ethical beliefs and arguments within the specifics of their world-making as well as the ethical problems presented by relations of power within the particular histories of the texts' various moments.	Seminar
23660	AMES	 408S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23660	AMES	 408S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23660	AMES	 408S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
23660	AMES	 408S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	Seminar
23660	HISTORY	 416S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23660	HISTORY	 416S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23660	HISTORY	 416S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
23660	HISTORY	 416S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	Seminar
23660	ICS	 421S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23660	ICS	 421S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23660	ICS	 421S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
23660	ICS	 421S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	Seminar
23660	PUBPOL	 413S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23660	PUBPOL	 413S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23660	PUBPOL	 413S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
23660	PUBPOL	 413S	GEOPOLITICS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA	Comparative study of geopolitical attitudes toward Muslim minorities in and majority Muslim nations of the greater Middle East beginning with the Ottomans and including Bosnia, Chechnya, Iran, Afghanistan and/or Xinjiang. These polities have histories of colonialism, contested Islamic and secular state traditions, and experiences of anti-Muslim racism, religious and ethnic conflict and political violence. Theoretical analysis of historiography, Islamophobia, gender, identity, and policy. Discussion of US, European, and regional geopolitical interests through cultural texts including literature and film. This course does not fulfill the History capstone requirement.	Seminar
23683	CHINESE	 105D	FIRST YEAR CHINESE IN REVIEW I	Consolidate learning the basic elements of Chinese language and culture. Equal attention paid to the development of listening, speaking, reading and writing proficiencies. Introduction to aspects of Chinese life and culture. Open to students who had received some Chinese language instruction before coming to Duke but lacked a solid foundation in basic Chinese grammar and pronunciation. Not open for credit to students who grew up in a household speaking Mandarin Chinese. After completing Chinese 105, students will take Chinese 203.	(FL) Foreign Language
23686	ENVIRON	 269T-1	VOICES IN ENVIRONMENT: SPANISH	In this course, students will explore how language and culture impact environmental policy and practice. Through authentic text, video, and case studies in Spanish, students will analyze environmental issues in Latin America to develop their understanding of core issues in the field. Tutorials meet for 75 minutes/week. Taught in Spanish.	Tutorial
23686	SPANISH	 272T-1	VOICES IN ENVIRONMENT: SPANISH	In this course, students will explore how language and culture impact environmental policy and practice. Through authentic text, video, and case studies in Spanish, students will analyze environmental issues in Latin America to develop their understanding of core issues in the field. Tutorials meet for 75 minutes/week. Taught in Spanish.	Tutorial
23739	I&E	499	ENTREPRENEURSHIP CAPSTONE	In this course, students bring together interdisciplinary insights from their work throughout the Innovation & Entrepreneurship Certificate program to shed light on innovation and entrepreneurship and the roles they play in addressing the world's most pressing problems. The class will incorporate rich discussion, selected readings, and guest speakers addressing topics in innovation and entrepreneurship. Students will focus on applying what they have learned through the certificate curriculum to develop an innovation and entrepreneurship capstone project. Director of undergraduate studies consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
23790	ECON	 381S	INSIDE HEDGE FUNDS	Background and evolution of hedge funds, their structure, and various investment strategies. An analysis of why hedge funds have become the most prolific investment vehicles in the world, and why they have become the key customer base to investment banks. There will be a range of guest lecturers from the hedge fund world that will provide a bird's-eye view into the industry. Prerequisite: Economics 372.	(SS) Social Sciences
23790	ECON	 381S	INSIDE HEDGE FUNDS	Background and evolution of hedge funds, their structure, and various investment strategies. An analysis of why hedge funds have become the most prolific investment vehicles in the world, and why they have become the key customer base to investment banks. There will be a range of guest lecturers from the hedge fund world that will provide a bird's-eye view into the industry. Prerequisite: Economics 372.	Seminar
23825	CULANTH	 190S	TOPICS IN CUL. ANTHROPOLOGY	Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
23825	CULANTH	 190S	TOPICS IN CUL. ANTHROPOLOGY	Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
23867	SOCIOL	265	DRUGS IN THE US	Explores trends in the use, abuse, and regulation of mind-altering substances in the United States. Topics include: patterns of drug use over time and across social groups; drug market creation and regulation; media promotion and condemnation of drug activities; drug policy legislation and enforcement; medicalization of deviance; rise and fall of drug panics; and critical analysis of the casualties of the current war on drugs.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23867	SOCIOL	265	DRUGS IN THE US	Explores trends in the use, abuse, and regulation of mind-altering substances in the United States. Topics include: patterns of drug use over time and across social groups; drug market creation and regulation; media promotion and condemnation of drug activities; drug policy legislation and enforcement; medicalization of deviance; rise and fall of drug panics; and critical analysis of the casualties of the current war on drugs.	(SS) Social Sciences
23888	AAAS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23888	AAAS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CZ) Civilizations
23888	AAAS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23888	AAAS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(R) Research
23888	AAAS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
23888	AAAS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	Seminar
23888	HISTORY	 386S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23888	HISTORY	 386S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CZ) Civilizations
23888	HISTORY	 386S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23888	HISTORY	 386S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(R) Research
23888	HISTORY	 386S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
23888	HISTORY	 386S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	Seminar
23888	ICS	 211S-2	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23888	ICS	 211S-2	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CZ) Civilizations
23888	ICS	 211S-2	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23888	ICS	 211S-2	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(R) Research
23888	ICS	 211S-2	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
23888	ICS	 211S-2	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	Seminar
23888	POLSCI	 337S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23888	POLSCI	 337S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CZ) Civilizations
23888	POLSCI	 337S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23888	POLSCI	 337S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(R) Research
23888	POLSCI	 337S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
23888	POLSCI	 337S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	Seminar
23888	PUBPOL	 327S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23888	PUBPOL	 327S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CZ) Civilizations
23888	PUBPOL	 327S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23888	PUBPOL	 327S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(R) Research
23888	PUBPOL	 327S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
23888	PUBPOL	 327S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	Seminar
23888	RIGHTS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23888	RIGHTS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(CZ) Civilizations
23888	RIGHTS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23888	RIGHTS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(R) Research
23888	RIGHTS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
23888	RIGHTS	 316S	APARTHEID S-AFRICA/DEMOCRACY	Working through an array of diverse organizations  including the African National Congress, the Pan African Congress, the Black Consciousness Movement, a host of liberal organizations, the churches, the trade union federations, and countless more - South Africans fought against apartheid from its inception. In 1994 they achieved a multi-racial democracy led by President Nelson Mandela. This seminar explores key themes in post-World War II South African history, paying special attention to the plethora of anti-apartheid struggles, while analyzing the tenets of apartheid policies.	Seminar
23892	ROMST	 390S	TOPICS IN ROMANCE STUDIES	A comparative study of languages, literatures, and/or cultures related to Romance Studies.	Seminar
23892	ROMST	 390S	TOPICS IN ROMANCE STUDIES	A comparative study of languages, literatures, and/or cultures related to Romance Studies.	Topics Course
23899	CINE	 352S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23899	CINE	 352S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	(R) Research
23899	CINE	 352S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
23899	CINE	 352S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	Seminar
23899	VMS	 363S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23899	VMS	 363S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	(R) Research
23899	VMS	 363S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
23899	VMS	 363S	TIME, SPACE AND FILM	Exploration of temporal transformation, spatial articulation and subjectivity in the moving image. From special effects and avant-garde experiments to the long take and the fluid master. Readings and screenings inform hands-on practical exercises.	Seminar
23901	ARTSVIS	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23901	ARTSVIS	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	Seminar
23901	DANCE	 201S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23901	DANCE	 201S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	Seminar
23901	DOCST	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23901	DOCST	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	Seminar
23901	I&E	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23901	I&E	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	Seminar
23901	MUSIC	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23901	MUSIC	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	Seminar
23901	VMS	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23901	VMS	 295S	ARTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Student teams work on specific arts-based entrepreneurial projects. Teams comprised of students from different backgrounds (arts, engineering, economics, computer science). Goals include creating business plan and launching ventures in areas of the arts. Structure an adaptation of Fuqua Program for Entrepreneurs. Ideal projects have real/positive impact on society. Students learn to situate artistic creativity within projects that meet societal need. Students from any background welcome to apply for enrollment. Must have interest in arts or working with artists in entrepreneurial context. Admission by permission of instructors.	Seminar
23902	PSY	 215FS	CRIME, SCIENCE AND PUBLIC	Introduction to theories of criminal behavior from developmental and psychological perspectives, with focus on scientific and public perspectives. Investigate risk and protective factors influencing the development of delinquency and crime, systemic and sociocultural factors, ethical controversies, and applied topics in criminal behavior. Students critically evaluate, synthesize, and debate cases in context of current empirical research. Interactive learning emphasized. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
23902	PSY	 215FS	CRIME, SCIENCE AND PUBLIC	Introduction to theories of criminal behavior from developmental and psychological perspectives, with focus on scientific and public perspectives. Investigate risk and protective factors influencing the development of delinquency and crime, systemic and sociocultural factors, ethical controversies, and applied topics in criminal behavior. Students critically evaluate, synthesize, and debate cases in context of current empirical research. Interactive learning emphasized. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(SS) Social Sciences
23902	PSY	 215FS	CRIME, SCIENCE AND PUBLIC	Introduction to theories of criminal behavior from developmental and psychological perspectives, with focus on scientific and public perspectives. Investigate risk and protective factors influencing the development of delinquency and crime, systemic and sociocultural factors, ethical controversies, and applied topics in criminal behavior. Students critically evaluate, synthesize, and debate cases in context of current empirical research. Interactive learning emphasized. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
23907	ARTSVIS	 119S	INTRO TO DIGITAL PHOTOGRAPHY	An emphasis on digital photography, using the camera as a distinctive way of seeing and knowing. Class assignments accompanied by historical and theoretical readings, lectures, class discussions, and field trips. Final projects include thematic photographic series and an individual documentary essay.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23907	ARTSVIS	 119S	INTRO TO DIGITAL PHOTOGRAPHY	An emphasis on digital photography, using the camera as a distinctive way of seeing and knowing. Class assignments accompanied by historical and theoretical readings, lectures, class discussions, and field trips. Final projects include thematic photographic series and an individual documentary essay.	Seminar
23907	DOCST	 119S	INTRO TO DIGITAL PHOTOGRAPHY	An emphasis on digital photography, using the camera as a distinctive way of seeing and knowing. Class assignments accompanied by historical and theoretical readings, lectures, class discussions, and field trips. Final projects include thematic photographic series and an individual documentary essay.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23907	DOCST	 119S	INTRO TO DIGITAL PHOTOGRAPHY	An emphasis on digital photography, using the camera as a distinctive way of seeing and knowing. Class assignments accompanied by historical and theoretical readings, lectures, class discussions, and field trips. Final projects include thematic photographic series and an individual documentary essay.	Seminar
23908	ECON	 255S	SHAKESPEARE & FIN MKTS	Course discusses how lessons from Shakespeare's plays can provide insight into human behavior in today's financial markets. Plays will include Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Twelfth Night, and others. Lessons about policy errors, cultural and political dislocation, regime changes, demographic conflicts etc. in current financial and macroeconomic environments. Discussion will include human biases in decision-making, and how these transcend cultural and historic boundaries. An important component of this class is understanding how to integrate themes from classical literature to better understand current socioeconomic trends.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23908	ECON	 255S	SHAKESPEARE & FIN MKTS	Course discusses how lessons from Shakespeare's plays can provide insight into human behavior in today's financial markets. Plays will include Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Twelfth Night, and others. Lessons about policy errors, cultural and political dislocation, regime changes, demographic conflicts etc. in current financial and macroeconomic environments. Discussion will include human biases in decision-making, and how these transcend cultural and historic boundaries. An important component of this class is understanding how to integrate themes from classical literature to better understand current socioeconomic trends.	(SS) Social Sciences
23908	ECON	 255S	SHAKESPEARE & FIN MKTS	Course discusses how lessons from Shakespeare's plays can provide insight into human behavior in today's financial markets. Plays will include Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Twelfth Night, and others. Lessons about policy errors, cultural and political dislocation, regime changes, demographic conflicts etc. in current financial and macroeconomic environments. Discussion will include human biases in decision-making, and how these transcend cultural and historic boundaries. An important component of this class is understanding how to integrate themes from classical literature to better understand current socioeconomic trends.	Seminar
23908	PUBPOL	 257S	SHAKESPEARE & FIN MKTS	Course discusses how lessons from Shakespeare's plays can provide insight into human behavior in today's financial markets. Plays will include Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Twelfth Night, and others. Lessons about policy errors, cultural and political dislocation, regime changes, demographic conflicts etc. in current financial and macroeconomic environments. Discussion will include human biases in decision-making, and how these transcend cultural and historic boundaries. An important component of this class is understanding how to integrate themes from classical literature to better understand current socioeconomic trends.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23908	PUBPOL	 257S	SHAKESPEARE & FIN MKTS	Course discusses how lessons from Shakespeare's plays can provide insight into human behavior in today's financial markets. Plays will include Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Twelfth Night, and others. Lessons about policy errors, cultural and political dislocation, regime changes, demographic conflicts etc. in current financial and macroeconomic environments. Discussion will include human biases in decision-making, and how these transcend cultural and historic boundaries. An important component of this class is understanding how to integrate themes from classical literature to better understand current socioeconomic trends.	(SS) Social Sciences
23908	PUBPOL	 257S	SHAKESPEARE & FIN MKTS	Course discusses how lessons from Shakespeare's plays can provide insight into human behavior in today's financial markets. Plays will include Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Twelfth Night, and others. Lessons about policy errors, cultural and political dislocation, regime changes, demographic conflicts etc. in current financial and macroeconomic environments. Discussion will include human biases in decision-making, and how these transcend cultural and historic boundaries. An important component of this class is understanding how to integrate themes from classical literature to better understand current socioeconomic trends.	Seminar
23910	GSF	 229S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23910	GSF	 229S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23910	GSF	 229S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	Seminar
23910	LIT	 229S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23910	LIT	 229S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23910	LIT	 229S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	Seminar
23910	VMS	 226S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23910	VMS	 226S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23910	VMS	 226S	SPACE-BODY-IMAGE	Analyzes ways the production of space in architecture and urban theory also produce images of the ideal bodies supposed to inhabit them. Explores limits of the production of space from standpoint of feminist, queer, and critical race theory, as well as through current research in disability studies. Surveys efforts by contemporary artists, writers, and filmmakers to interrupt prevailing images of space and imagine new kinds of bodies to move within them.	Seminar
23912	ENGLISH	 316S-1	PLAYMAKING FOR WRITERS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film, is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, student writers explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing in collaboration with actors and directors. Starting with writing exercises that aim at the core concept of 'dramatic action', students' progress to self-generated works. Semester ends with public presentation of student work as brought to the stage by the companion section for actors and directors. Prerequisite: one previous dramatic writing course in playwriting, TV writing, or screenwriting.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23912	ENGLISH	 316S-1	PLAYMAKING FOR WRITERS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film, is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, student writers explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing in collaboration with actors and directors. Starting with writing exercises that aim at the core concept of 'dramatic action', students' progress to self-generated works. Semester ends with public presentation of student work as brought to the stage by the companion section for actors and directors. Prerequisite: one previous dramatic writing course in playwriting, TV writing, or screenwriting.	(W) Writing
23912	ENGLISH	 316S-1	PLAYMAKING FOR WRITERS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film, is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, student writers explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing in collaboration with actors and directors. Starting with writing exercises that aim at the core concept of 'dramatic action', students' progress to self-generated works. Semester ends with public presentation of student work as brought to the stage by the companion section for actors and directors. Prerequisite: one previous dramatic writing course in playwriting, TV writing, or screenwriting.	Seminar
23912	THEATRST	 380S-1	PLAYMAKING FOR WRITERS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film, is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, student writers explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing in collaboration with actors and directors. Starting with writing exercises that aim at the core concept of 'dramatic action', students' progress to self-generated works. Semester ends with public presentation of student work as brought to the stage by the companion section for actors and directors. Prerequisite: one previous dramatic writing course in playwriting, TV writing, or screenwriting.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
23912	THEATRST	 380S-1	PLAYMAKING FOR WRITERS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film, is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, student writers explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing in collaboration with actors and directors. Starting with writing exercises that aim at the core concept of 'dramatic action', students' progress to self-generated works. Semester ends with public presentation of student work as brought to the stage by the companion section for actors and directors. Prerequisite: one previous dramatic writing course in playwriting, TV writing, or screenwriting.	(W) Writing
23912	THEATRST	 380S-1	PLAYMAKING FOR WRITERS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film, is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, student writers explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing in collaboration with actors and directors. Starting with writing exercises that aim at the core concept of 'dramatic action', students' progress to self-generated works. Semester ends with public presentation of student work as brought to the stage by the companion section for actors and directors. Prerequisite: one previous dramatic writing course in playwriting, TV writing, or screenwriting.	Seminar
23933	LINGUIST	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23933	LINGUIST	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	(FL) Foreign Language
23933	LINGUIST	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	(SS) Social Sciences
23933	LINGUIST	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	Seminar
23933	SPANISH	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23933	SPANISH	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	(FL) Foreign Language
23933	SPANISH	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	(SS) Social Sciences
23933	SPANISH	 309S	SPANISH IN THE U.S.	Focus on linguistic development and current presence of Spanish in the United States. Students will develop linguistic and critical awareness about the relationship between Spanish language and society, with special emphasis on topics such as language variety, language contact from a social, political and educational perspective, types of bilingualism, sociolinguistic issues, migration patterns and settlements, etc. Readings in English and in Spanish with class discussion in Spanish. Previous 300-level Spanish work strongly recommended, or bilingual or nearly bilingual proficiency in Spanish.	Seminar
23953	CULANTH	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23953	CULANTH	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CZ) Civilizations
23953	CULANTH	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(W) Writing
23953	CULANTH	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	Seminar
23953	HISTORY	 242S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23953	HISTORY	 242S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CZ) Civilizations
23953	HISTORY	 242S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(W) Writing
23953	HISTORY	 242S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	Seminar
23953	LATAMER	 246S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23953	LATAMER	 246S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CZ) Civilizations
23953	LATAMER	 246S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(W) Writing
23953	LATAMER	 246S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	Seminar
23953	RIGHTS	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
23953	RIGHTS	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(CZ) Civilizations
23953	RIGHTS	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	(W) Writing
23953	RIGHTS	 245S	HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE AMERICAS	This course introduces students to the history of human rights in Latin America, with a focus on certain regions. We will begin with the Conquest and cover the emergence of independent nation-states; the role of imposed economic policies, including neoliberalism; indigenous protest movements and their relationships to corporate interests; and the influence of the United States on human rights, government formation, immigration and the drug trade. Instructor consent required. Open only to students in the DukeImmerse program.	Seminar
23973	MEDREN	 190S	SP TOPICS MEDIEVAL RENAISSANCE	Topics differ each semester.	Seminar
23973	MEDREN	 190S	SP TOPICS MEDIEVAL RENAISSANCE	Topics differ each semester.	Topics Course
23983	ECON	256	PRACTICAL FINANCIAL MARKETS	Familiarizes students with the practical, hands-on tools and knowledge required for careers in the financial markets. Topics covered include: securities markets; corporate valuation techniques including DCF, Comps, Precedent Transactions, LBO and IPO models; equity research methodologies; asset allocation and risk-return analytics; current market news and events; regulation; ethics; contemporary finance/business issues as applicable. Open only to sophomores.	(SS) Social Sciences
23989	BIOLOGY	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY: ADV TOPICS	Reading in a field of special interest under the supervision of a Biology faculty member. Intended for students interested in studying topics not offered in regularly available courses. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
24012	VMS	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or report. Open to qualified students, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
24015	VMS	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
24015	VMS	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
24104	ENGLISH	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24104	ENGLISH	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24104	ENGLISH	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CZ) Civilizations
24104	ENGLISH	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24104	GERMAN	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24104	GERMAN	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24104	GERMAN	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CZ) Civilizations
24104	GERMAN	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24104	ICS	212	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24104	ICS	212	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24104	ICS	212	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CZ) Civilizations
24104	ICS	212	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24104	ITALIAN	336	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24104	ITALIAN	336	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24104	ITALIAN	336	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CZ) Civilizations
24104	ITALIAN	336	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24104	JEWISHST	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24104	JEWISHST	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24104	JEWISHST	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CZ) Civilizations
24104	JEWISHST	243	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24104	LIT	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24104	LIT	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24104	LIT	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CZ) Civilizations
24104	LIT	244	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24104	ROMST	206	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24104	ROMST	206	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24104	ROMST	206	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(CZ) Civilizations
24104	ROMST	206	MODERN EUROPEAN SHORT FICTION	Comprehensive examination of several important works of modern European short fiction by authors such as Kafka, Woolf, Svevo, Sartre, Joyce, Proust, Mann, Schnitzler, Gogol, and Calvino. While stories will be contextualized historically, culturally, and geographically, course is organized into thematic units, including animals, home, punishment, and love, to facilitate comparative analysis. Students engage critically with concepts such as identity, trauma, genre, and narrative form.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24105	CESC	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24105	CESC	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(CZ) Civilizations
24105	CESC	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24105	CESC	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(SS) Social Sciences
24105	PUBPOL	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24105	PUBPOL	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(CZ) Civilizations
24105	PUBPOL	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24105	PUBPOL	283	ETHICS IN AN UNJUST WORLD	The course considers the question, 'How can we fix poverty?' It begins by exploring the nature of poverty through a variety of descriptive metaphors (for example, poverty as a 'trap' or a 'disease'). It then considers the word 'we,' and in doing so introduces several basic understandings of ethics (deontology, utilitarianism, virtue ethics, etc.) Finally it considers the word 'fix' and offers three models for responding to poverty: working for, working with, and being with. Each model explores several examples of good practice followed by critical reflection as students engage with opportunities in Durham displaying each approach.	(SS) Social Sciences
24106	POLSCI	317	GLOBAL CORRUPTION	Inquiry into causes and political, social, and economic effects of corruption worldwide, with focus on developing countries. Analysis of prospects of success in anticorruption reform and prescriptions for hurrying it along. Examination of role of political institutions, social norms, multinational firms, international organizations, grassroots activists. Readings include legal research, case studies, statistical analyses, policy reports. Prior coursework in political science a prerequisite, basic understanding of multivariate statistics helpful but not required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24106	POLSCI	317	GLOBAL CORRUPTION	Inquiry into causes and political, social, and economic effects of corruption worldwide, with focus on developing countries. Analysis of prospects of success in anticorruption reform and prescriptions for hurrying it along. Examination of role of political institutions, social norms, multinational firms, international organizations, grassroots activists. Readings include legal research, case studies, statistical analyses, policy reports. Prior coursework in political science a prerequisite, basic understanding of multivariate statistics helpful but not required.	(SS) Social Sciences
24135	NEUROSCI	102	BIO BASES OF BEHAVIOR (TEAM)	Introduction to neuroscience that explores methods, models, and reasoning that led to discoveries about brain-behavior relations. Students learn and apply concepts in neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, synaptic transmission, the somatic sensorimotor system, vision, emotions, attention & consciousness, memory & learning, sexual differentiation & orientation, and psychopathology. In-class experiences organized around principles of team-based learning, with students collaborating in small teams for readiness assessments and team applications. Course fulfills gateway requirement for Neuroscience major. First years are welcome.	(NS) Natural Sciences
24135	PSY	107	BIO BASES OF BEHAVIOR (TEAM)	Introduction to neuroscience that explores methods, models, and reasoning that led to discoveries about brain-behavior relations. Students learn and apply concepts in neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, synaptic transmission, the somatic sensorimotor system, vision, emotions, attention & consciousness, memory & learning, sexual differentiation & orientation, and psychopathology. In-class experiences organized around principles of team-based learning, with students collaborating in small teams for readiness assessments and team applications. Course fulfills gateway requirement for Neuroscience major. First years are welcome.	(NS) Natural Sciences
24138	BIOLOGY	 128FS	EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS	We are now more than a decade into the genomics revolution that generated data allowing us to gaze into our past, present, and future in ways that were beyond imagining when Darwin's theory of Natural Selection was first introduced. The unification of genomic data, bioinformatics, and evolutionary theory has transformed our understanding of human history, our place within the Tree of Life, and the impact that our species is having on those with whom we share the planet. This course will use the primary literature to familiarize students with the multifaceted power of genomics, with a slant towards examining human history and disease from an evolutionary perspective. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(NS) Natural Sciences
24138	BIOLOGY	 128FS	EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS	We are now more than a decade into the genomics revolution that generated data allowing us to gaze into our past, present, and future in ways that were beyond imagining when Darwin's theory of Natural Selection was first introduced. The unification of genomic data, bioinformatics, and evolutionary theory has transformed our understanding of human history, our place within the Tree of Life, and the impact that our species is having on those with whom we share the planet. This course will use the primary literature to familiarize students with the multifaceted power of genomics, with a slant towards examining human history and disease from an evolutionary perspective. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24138	BIOLOGY	 128FS	EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS	We are now more than a decade into the genomics revolution that generated data allowing us to gaze into our past, present, and future in ways that were beyond imagining when Darwin's theory of Natural Selection was first introduced. The unification of genomic data, bioinformatics, and evolutionary theory has transformed our understanding of human history, our place within the Tree of Life, and the impact that our species is having on those with whom we share the planet. This course will use the primary literature to familiarize students with the multifaceted power of genomics, with a slant towards examining human history and disease from an evolutionary perspective. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
24138	GENOME	 128FS	EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS	We are now more than a decade into the genomics revolution that generated data allowing us to gaze into our past, present, and future in ways that were beyond imagining when Darwin's theory of Natural Selection was first introduced. The unification of genomic data, bioinformatics, and evolutionary theory has transformed our understanding of human history, our place within the Tree of Life, and the impact that our species is having on those with whom we share the planet. This course will use the primary literature to familiarize students with the multifaceted power of genomics, with a slant towards examining human history and disease from an evolutionary perspective. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(NS) Natural Sciences
24138	GENOME	 128FS	EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS	We are now more than a decade into the genomics revolution that generated data allowing us to gaze into our past, present, and future in ways that were beyond imagining when Darwin's theory of Natural Selection was first introduced. The unification of genomic data, bioinformatics, and evolutionary theory has transformed our understanding of human history, our place within the Tree of Life, and the impact that our species is having on those with whom we share the planet. This course will use the primary literature to familiarize students with the multifaceted power of genomics, with a slant towards examining human history and disease from an evolutionary perspective. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24138	GENOME	 128FS	EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS	We are now more than a decade into the genomics revolution that generated data allowing us to gaze into our past, present, and future in ways that were beyond imagining when Darwin's theory of Natural Selection was first introduced. The unification of genomic data, bioinformatics, and evolutionary theory has transformed our understanding of human history, our place within the Tree of Life, and the impact that our species is having on those with whom we share the planet. This course will use the primary literature to familiarize students with the multifaceted power of genomics, with a slant towards examining human history and disease from an evolutionary perspective. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
24155	DOCST	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24155	DOCST	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24155	DOCST	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(W) Writing
24155	DOCST	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	Seminar
24155	ENGLISH	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24155	ENGLISH	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24155	ENGLISH	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(W) Writing
24155	ENGLISH	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	Seminar
24155	LIT	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24155	LIT	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24155	LIT	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	(W) Writing
24155	LIT	 279S	DOCUMENTARY POETRY	Investigates written and oral poetry as a mode of documentary storytelling. Engage with contemporary and historical poetry examining real-life, historical events. Investigate relationship between history, documentary, and poetry. Write poems based on research with multiple forms of archival source material and critical interpretation thereof.	Seminar
24196	KICHE	203	INTERMEDIATE K'ICHE' MAYA I	Develops greater competencies in writing in K'iche' and translation to/from K'iche'. Covers more advanced grammar (verb modalities) and broader range of scripts (colonial vs. modern orthography). Research conducted in K'iche' using the Oral History archive at the University of New Mexico (https://laii.unm.edu/kiche.html). Students select a story from the online archive, listen to audio, correct transcription, rewrite it in modern orthography and translate it into contemporary English to present to classmates. Taught at Vanderbilt University; Duke students participate through video conference/telepresence classroom. Prerequisite: K'iche' Maya 102 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
24214	THEATRST	209	HOW MUSICALS WORK	What makes a musical a musical? How do musicals create alchemy in song and dance? What is the relationship between content, form, and context? These questions will guide our study of musical theater dramaturgy and its evolution. We will cover everything from contemporary musicals to Sondheim, rock operas, revues, and Rodgers & Hammerstein. By the end of the course, students will become experts at recognizing various forms of musical theatre, gain an understanding of the pivotal relationship between historical context and dramatic form, and be able to chart how innovations often become conventions. Our focus is musical theater on the page and the stage as we explore how musicals work.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24221	ARTSVIS	 212FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24221	ARTSVIS	 212FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24221	ARTSVIS	 212FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	Seminar
24221	DOCST	 209FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24221	DOCST	 209FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24221	DOCST	 209FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	Seminar
24221	EDUC	 209FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24221	EDUC	 209FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24221	EDUC	 209FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	Seminar
24221	VMS	 212FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24221	VMS	 212FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24221	VMS	 212FS	DIGITAL DOCUMENTARY PHOTO	Documentary photography as a tool for exploring public education in Durham. Learn digital techniques including camera function, Photoshop, ink-jet printing, audio capture and production of audio-visual slide shows. Discuss ethical issues that emerge as a result of digital photographic impermanence. Service-learning environment consisting of fieldwork photography in collaboration with community organization, culminating in an exhibit. This is a Focus Program Course for Knowledge in the Service of Society. Department consent is required.	Seminar
24282	GLHLTH	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Content to be determined each semester.	Seminar
24282	GLHLTH	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Content to be determined each semester.	Topics Course
24306	BIOLOGY	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY: ADV TOPICS	Reading in a field of special interest under the supervision of a Biology faculty member. Intended for students interested in studying topics not offered in regularly available courses. Instructor consent is required.	Independent Study
24317	NEUROSCI	 353S	NEUROPLASTICITY AND DISEASE	Explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms in diverse neurological disorders, with an emphasis on understanding how disruptions of neural circuits drive behavioral and cognitive dysfunction. Students critically evaluate primary literature on topics including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disabilities, and traumatic brain injuries. Classes utilize a combination of lectures, invited guest speakers, and team-based learning exercises to create a highly interactive learning environment. Prerequisite/Corequisite: Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neuroscience 202 or Neuroscience 223/Biology 223.	(NS) Natural Sciences
24317	NEUROSCI	 353S	NEUROPLASTICITY AND DISEASE	Explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms in diverse neurological disorders, with an emphasis on understanding how disruptions of neural circuits drive behavioral and cognitive dysfunction. Students critically evaluate primary literature on topics including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disabilities, and traumatic brain injuries. Classes utilize a combination of lectures, invited guest speakers, and team-based learning exercises to create a highly interactive learning environment. Prerequisite/Corequisite: Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neuroscience 202 or Neuroscience 223/Biology 223.	(W) Writing
24317	NEUROSCI	 353S	NEUROPLASTICITY AND DISEASE	Explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms in diverse neurological disorders, with an emphasis on understanding how disruptions of neural circuits drive behavioral and cognitive dysfunction. Students critically evaluate primary literature on topics including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disabilities, and traumatic brain injuries. Classes utilize a combination of lectures, invited guest speakers, and team-based learning exercises to create a highly interactive learning environment. Prerequisite/Corequisite: Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neuroscience 202 or Neuroscience 223/Biology 223.	Seminar
24317	PSY	 353S	NEUROPLASTICITY AND DISEASE	Explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms in diverse neurological disorders, with an emphasis on understanding how disruptions of neural circuits drive behavioral and cognitive dysfunction. Students critically evaluate primary literature on topics including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disabilities, and traumatic brain injuries. Classes utilize a combination of lectures, invited guest speakers, and team-based learning exercises to create a highly interactive learning environment. Prerequisite/Corequisite: Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neuroscience 202 or Neuroscience 223/Biology 223.	(NS) Natural Sciences
24317	PSY	 353S	NEUROPLASTICITY AND DISEASE	Explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms in diverse neurological disorders, with an emphasis on understanding how disruptions of neural circuits drive behavioral and cognitive dysfunction. Students critically evaluate primary literature on topics including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disabilities, and traumatic brain injuries. Classes utilize a combination of lectures, invited guest speakers, and team-based learning exercises to create a highly interactive learning environment. Prerequisite/Corequisite: Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neuroscience 202 or Neuroscience 223/Biology 223.	(W) Writing
24317	PSY	 353S	NEUROPLASTICITY AND DISEASE	Explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms in diverse neurological disorders, with an emphasis on understanding how disruptions of neural circuits drive behavioral and cognitive dysfunction. Students critically evaluate primary literature on topics including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disabilities, and traumatic brain injuries. Classes utilize a combination of lectures, invited guest speakers, and team-based learning exercises to create a highly interactive learning environment. Prerequisite/Corequisite: Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neuroscience 202 or Neuroscience 223/Biology 223.	Seminar
24327	AAAS	 325S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24327	AAAS	 325S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24327	AAAS	 325S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24327	AAAS	 325S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	Seminar
24327	MUSIC	 337S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24327	MUSIC	 337S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24327	MUSIC	 337S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24327	MUSIC	 337S	HIP-HOP PRODUCTION	Introduction to Hip-Hop Production examines the history, background, functionality, and techniques of hip-hop production. This class will examine the art of sampling, borrowing, context, and practices in hip-hop production, while studying the history of beat machines and digital audio workstations.	Seminar
24339	ARTSVIS	320	ADVANCED PAINTING	In advanced painting you will learn how to develop conceptual ideas by using the elements of art (line, color, harmony, repetition, value, texture, composition, and rhythm) to visually communicate. We will focus on developing meaningful paintings that conceptually address issues or ideas that are important to you. Prerequisite: Visual Arts 220.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24343	SPANISH	205	ADV INTER SPANISH-SERV-LEARN	Same as Spanish 204, except with a service-learning component.	(CZ) Civilizations
24343	SPANISH	205	ADV INTER SPANISH-SERV-LEARN	Same as Spanish 204, except with a service-learning component.	(FL) Foreign Language
24344	LINGUIST	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24344	LINGUIST	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(CZ) Civilizations
24344	LINGUIST	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24344	LINGUIST	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(FL) Foreign Language
24344	LINGUIST	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	Seminar
24344	RIGHTS	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24344	RIGHTS	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(CZ) Civilizations
24344	RIGHTS	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24344	RIGHTS	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(FL) Foreign Language
24344	RIGHTS	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	Seminar
24344	SPANISH	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24344	SPANISH	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(CZ) Civilizations
24344	SPANISH	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24344	SPANISH	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	(FL) Foreign Language
24344	SPANISH	 409S	LINGUISTIC RIGHTS - AMERICAS	This course focuses on linguistic justice and linguistic rights in interaction with other human rights. The class explores concepts of language, power, linguistic discrimination, and raciolinguistics in the context of bilingualism/multilingualism, indigenous languages, and endangered languages. We will examine how language is used to shape and negotiate identities, and how it reflects and sustains social realities and situations of social inequality. Methodologically, we will use linguistic and sociolinguistic analysis and elements of critical discourse analysis.	Seminar
24351	EDUC	 289S	ASSESSMENT IN HIGHER EDUCATIO	The practice of assessment and its impacts on education policy and curriculum. Course introduces undergraduate students to the practice of learning outcomes assessment in higher education  its traditions, contexts, and objectives. Students will cultivate critical judgment about the issues facing higher education and the ways in which the practice of assessment can help explain and mitigate those issues. At some point in their careers, students will be asked to design, execute, or evaluate a body of research. Course provides fundamental knowledge and skills necessary to engage in social science research, particularly research in education.	(R) Research
24351	EDUC	 289S	ASSESSMENT IN HIGHER EDUCATIO	The practice of assessment and its impacts on education policy and curriculum. Course introduces undergraduate students to the practice of learning outcomes assessment in higher education  its traditions, contexts, and objectives. Students will cultivate critical judgment about the issues facing higher education and the ways in which the practice of assessment can help explain and mitigate those issues. At some point in their careers, students will be asked to design, execute, or evaluate a body of research. Course provides fundamental knowledge and skills necessary to engage in social science research, particularly research in education.	(SS) Social Sciences
24351	EDUC	 289S	ASSESSMENT IN HIGHER EDUCATIO	The practice of assessment and its impacts on education policy and curriculum. Course introduces undergraduate students to the practice of learning outcomes assessment in higher education  its traditions, contexts, and objectives. Students will cultivate critical judgment about the issues facing higher education and the ways in which the practice of assessment can help explain and mitigate those issues. At some point in their careers, students will be asked to design, execute, or evaluate a body of research. Course provides fundamental knowledge and skills necessary to engage in social science research, particularly research in education.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24351	EDUC	 289S	ASSESSMENT IN HIGHER EDUCATIO	The practice of assessment and its impacts on education policy and curriculum. Course introduces undergraduate students to the practice of learning outcomes assessment in higher education  its traditions, contexts, and objectives. Students will cultivate critical judgment about the issues facing higher education and the ways in which the practice of assessment can help explain and mitigate those issues. At some point in their careers, students will be asked to design, execute, or evaluate a body of research. Course provides fundamental knowledge and skills necessary to engage in social science research, particularly research in education.	(W) Writing
24351	EDUC	 289S	ASSESSMENT IN HIGHER EDUCATIO	The practice of assessment and its impacts on education policy and curriculum. Course introduces undergraduate students to the practice of learning outcomes assessment in higher education  its traditions, contexts, and objectives. Students will cultivate critical judgment about the issues facing higher education and the ways in which the practice of assessment can help explain and mitigate those issues. At some point in their careers, students will be asked to design, execute, or evaluate a body of research. Course provides fundamental knowledge and skills necessary to engage in social science research, particularly research in education.	Seminar
24366	LIT	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN LITERATURE	Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
24366	LIT	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN LITERATURE	Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
24374	AAAS	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24374	AAAS	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24374	AAAS	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(CZ) Civilizations
24374	AAAS	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24374	GSF	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24374	GSF	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24374	GSF	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(CZ) Civilizations
24374	GSF	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24374	RELIGION	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24374	RELIGION	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24374	RELIGION	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(CZ) Civilizations
24374	RELIGION	201	RACE, FILM, AND RELIGION	In this course, we will examine how cinema both constructs and reproduces anti-black racism and how cinema works to liberate blackness from the strictures of racial domination. We will watch films from the past three decades that provide an opportunity to interrogate the relationship between race, gender, and sexuality. These films will also enable us to think about how cinema introduces unconventional notions of the sacred, a process that involves affect, desire, and imagination. Films that we watch may include: Moonlight, Medicine for Melancholy, Black Panther, Daughters of the Dust, Get Out, US, Pariah, and Selma.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24378	MATH	 190S	SEMINAR ON TOPICS IN MATH	Seminar version of Math 190. Topics vary.	Seminar
24378	MATH	 190S	SEMINAR ON TOPICS IN MATH	Seminar version of Math 190. Topics vary.	Topics Course
24398	GLHLTH	215	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24398	GLHLTH	215	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(SS) Social Sciences
24398	GLHLTH	215	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24398	GLHLTH	215	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(W) Writing
24398	GSF	220	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24398	GSF	220	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(SS) Social Sciences
24398	GSF	220	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24398	GSF	220	GLOBAL REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH	Through the examination of weekly case studies, students will explore the complexity of working in the field of global sexual and reproductive health and the ways in which various health and social science disciplines can be integrated in the development of effective health programs. Session topics will include family planning, maternity care, gender-based violence, abortion, and HIV/AIDS. Using examples from the US and low-and middle-income countries, students will identify key focus areas in sexual and reproductive health, technical and programmatic challenges and successful interventions. Recommended prerequisite: Global Health 212.	(W) Writing
24399	JEWISHST	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Topics vary by semester. Consent of instructor is required.	Seminar
24399	JEWISHST	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS	Topics vary by semester. Consent of instructor is required.	Topics Course
24407	MATH	 218D-1	MATRICES AND VECTOR SPACES	Solving systems of linear equations, matrix factorizations and fundamental vector subspaces, orthogonality, least squares problems, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, the singular value decomposition and principal component analysis, applications to data-driven problems. Intended primarily for students in computer science and other data-focused sciences. Prospective math majors should take Mathematics 221 instead. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 216 or 221. Recommended prerequisite: Mathematics 21, 121, 106L, or 111L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
24432	EDUC	 101S	FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION	Interdisciplinary examination of issues confronting American education, incorporating historical, political, economical, philosophical, and social perspectives. Exploration of ways cultural influences and differences have shaped public schools. Students participate in structured service-learning experience in which they reflect on ethical issues related to schooling. Required participation in service-learning.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24432	EDUC	 101S	FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION	Interdisciplinary examination of issues confronting American education, incorporating historical, political, economical, philosophical, and social perspectives. Exploration of ways cultural influences and differences have shaped public schools. Students participate in structured service-learning experience in which they reflect on ethical issues related to schooling. Required participation in service-learning.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24432	EDUC	 101S	FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION	Interdisciplinary examination of issues confronting American education, incorporating historical, political, economical, philosophical, and social perspectives. Exploration of ways cultural influences and differences have shaped public schools. Students participate in structured service-learning experience in which they reflect on ethical issues related to schooling. Required participation in service-learning.	(SS) Social Sciences
24432	EDUC	 101S	FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION	Interdisciplinary examination of issues confronting American education, incorporating historical, political, economical, philosophical, and social perspectives. Exploration of ways cultural influences and differences have shaped public schools. Students participate in structured service-learning experience in which they reflect on ethical issues related to schooling. Required participation in service-learning.	Seminar
24464	GLHLTH	101	FUNDAMENTALS OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to global health issues and challenges. Develop an understanding of key concepts, tools, and frameworks essential for continued study in global health. Focus on global disease burden, health determinants and disparities, health policy and actors, and challenges of global health interventions. Explore the importance of understanding and addressing global health through multidisciplinary frameworks of the natural sciences, social-behavioral sciences, humanities, and policy.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24464	GLHLTH	101	FUNDAMENTALS OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to global health issues and challenges. Develop an understanding of key concepts, tools, and frameworks essential for continued study in global health. Focus on global disease burden, health determinants and disparities, health policy and actors, and challenges of global health interventions. Explore the importance of understanding and addressing global health through multidisciplinary frameworks of the natural sciences, social-behavioral sciences, humanities, and policy.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24464	GLHLTH	101	FUNDAMENTALS OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to global health issues and challenges. Develop an understanding of key concepts, tools, and frameworks essential for continued study in global health. Focus on global disease burden, health determinants and disparities, health policy and actors, and challenges of global health interventions. Explore the importance of understanding and addressing global health through multidisciplinary frameworks of the natural sciences, social-behavioral sciences, humanities, and policy.	(SS) Social Sciences
24464	GLHLTH	101	FUNDAMENTALS OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Introduction to global health issues and challenges. Develop an understanding of key concepts, tools, and frameworks essential for continued study in global health. Focus on global disease burden, health determinants and disparities, health policy and actors, and challenges of global health interventions. Explore the importance of understanding and addressing global health through multidisciplinary frameworks of the natural sciences, social-behavioral sciences, humanities, and policy.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24531	DANCE	116	ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE	The Alexander Technique provides a structured method of self inquiry which has helped performing artists improve their skills for over 100 years. By uncovering and transforming previously unconscious movement patterns and mental habits, performers can significantly improve their skills by increasing freedom and ease of movement. All instrumentalists and singers with a strong interest and background in performance are welcome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24531	MUSIC	116	ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE	The Alexander Technique provides a structured method of self inquiry which has helped performing artists improve their skills for over 100 years. By uncovering and transforming previously unconscious movement patterns and mental habits, performers can significantly improve their skills by increasing freedom and ease of movement. All instrumentalists and singers with a strong interest and background in performance are welcome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24531	THEATRST	247	ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE	The Alexander Technique provides a structured method of self inquiry which has helped performing artists improve their skills for over 100 years. By uncovering and transforming previously unconscious movement patterns and mental habits, performers can significantly improve their skills by increasing freedom and ease of movement. All instrumentalists and singers with a strong interest and background in performance are welcome.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24593	JEWISHST	 190FS	SP TOP: FOCUS PROGRAM	Topics vary by semester when offered. Open only to students in Focus Program	Seminar
24593	JEWISHST	 190FS	SP TOP: FOCUS PROGRAM	Topics vary by semester when offered. Open only to students in Focus Program	Topics Course
24601	POLSCI	 189FS	INTRO TO MACHINE LEARNING	Our goal as social scientists is to build models of the world and provide advice to policy makers. Given that human actors are often strategic and the games they play are complex, building and testing these models is difficult and distinct from common examples of machine learning. A task that is often used to motivate introductions to machine learning is teaching a model to recognize hand-written characters using MNIST data (https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/catalog/mnist). Our task is harder: we must build models that involve forecasting human behavior ranging from votes in a legislature to changes in stock prices.	(R) Research
24601	POLSCI	 189FS	INTRO TO MACHINE LEARNING	Our goal as social scientists is to build models of the world and provide advice to policy makers. Given that human actors are often strategic and the games they play are complex, building and testing these models is difficult and distinct from common examples of machine learning. A task that is often used to motivate introductions to machine learning is teaching a model to recognize hand-written characters using MNIST data (https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/catalog/mnist). Our task is harder: we must build models that involve forecasting human behavior ranging from votes in a legislature to changes in stock prices.	(SS) Social Sciences
24601	POLSCI	 189FS	INTRO TO MACHINE LEARNING	Our goal as social scientists is to build models of the world and provide advice to policy makers. Given that human actors are often strategic and the games they play are complex, building and testing these models is difficult and distinct from common examples of machine learning. A task that is often used to motivate introductions to machine learning is teaching a model to recognize hand-written characters using MNIST data (https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/catalog/mnist). Our task is harder: we must build models that involve forecasting human behavior ranging from votes in a legislature to changes in stock prices.	Seminar
24633	GREEK	 344S	GREEK NOVEL	Readings in the Greek novel with attention to genre, distinctive themes, narrative structure and techniques, characterization, and reception. Works include Achilles Tatius' Leucippe and Clitophon, Chariton's Chaereas and Callirhoe, Heliodorus' Aethiopica, Longus' Daphnis and Chloe, and Xenophon's Habrocomes and Anthia. Prerequisite: Greek 101, 102, 203, and 204 (or equivalent).	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
24633	GREEK	 344S	GREEK NOVEL	Readings in the Greek novel with attention to genre, distinctive themes, narrative structure and techniques, characterization, and reception. Works include Achilles Tatius' Leucippe and Clitophon, Chariton's Chaereas and Callirhoe, Heliodorus' Aethiopica, Longus' Daphnis and Chloe, and Xenophon's Habrocomes and Anthia. Prerequisite: Greek 101, 102, 203, and 204 (or equivalent).	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24633	GREEK	 344S	GREEK NOVEL	Readings in the Greek novel with attention to genre, distinctive themes, narrative structure and techniques, characterization, and reception. Works include Achilles Tatius' Leucippe and Clitophon, Chariton's Chaereas and Callirhoe, Heliodorus' Aethiopica, Longus' Daphnis and Chloe, and Xenophon's Habrocomes and Anthia. Prerequisite: Greek 101, 102, 203, and 204 (or equivalent).	(CZ) Civilizations
24633	GREEK	 344S	GREEK NOVEL	Readings in the Greek novel with attention to genre, distinctive themes, narrative structure and techniques, characterization, and reception. Works include Achilles Tatius' Leucippe and Clitophon, Chariton's Chaereas and Callirhoe, Heliodorus' Aethiopica, Longus' Daphnis and Chloe, and Xenophon's Habrocomes and Anthia. Prerequisite: Greek 101, 102, 203, and 204 (or equivalent).	(FL) Foreign Language
24633	GREEK	 344S	GREEK NOVEL	Readings in the Greek novel with attention to genre, distinctive themes, narrative structure and techniques, characterization, and reception. Works include Achilles Tatius' Leucippe and Clitophon, Chariton's Chaereas and Callirhoe, Heliodorus' Aethiopica, Longus' Daphnis and Chloe, and Xenophon's Habrocomes and Anthia. Prerequisite: Greek 101, 102, 203, and 204 (or equivalent).	Seminar
24655	LINGUIST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24655	LINGUIST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24655	LINGUIST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
24655	LINGUIST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
24655	ROMST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24655	ROMST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24655	ROMST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
24655	ROMST	 389S	LINGUIST HUMAN RIGHTS/AMERICA	This DukeImmerse course brings together topics of language and human rights, focusing on situations of linguistic disparities in the Americas. Explores questions of language contact, bilingualism and endangered languages from perspective of social injustices and human rights. Examines how language aids in the construct of social context and institutions and how it reflects and sustains social realities, reflecting on situations of oppression and how they are associated to sociolinguistic attitudes and behavior. Explores overlap of linguistic human rights with cultural and minority rights; all in connection to the right of maintaining one's identity as well as sustaining human rights. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
24677	PJMS	490	SP TOPICS IN POLICY JOURNALISM	Selected topics for courses offering capstone experiences or advanced research. Instructor consent required.	Topics Course
24690	CHINESE	331	MODERN CHINESE MEDIA	Different social and cultural issues that China is facing, including the coronavirus pandemic in Hubei, China's artificial-intelligence boom, globalization, etc; Content drawn from Chinese broadcast news, blogs and videos, TV shows, and documentary films; A community-engaged course or service-learning course; Engagement includes direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices; Improving language and intercultural communication skills that can be used to comprehend, analyze, and discuss real life topics and issues in modern Chinese society. Prerequisite: Chinese 232 or equivalent proficiency.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24690	CHINESE	331	MODERN CHINESE MEDIA	Different social and cultural issues that China is facing, including the coronavirus pandemic in Hubei, China's artificial-intelligence boom, globalization, etc; Content drawn from Chinese broadcast news, blogs and videos, TV shows, and documentary films; A community-engaged course or service-learning course; Engagement includes direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices; Improving language and intercultural communication skills that can be used to comprehend, analyze, and discuss real life topics and issues in modern Chinese society. Prerequisite: Chinese 232 or equivalent proficiency.	(CZ) Civilizations
24690	CHINESE	331	MODERN CHINESE MEDIA	Different social and cultural issues that China is facing, including the coronavirus pandemic in Hubei, China's artificial-intelligence boom, globalization, etc; Content drawn from Chinese broadcast news, blogs and videos, TV shows, and documentary films; A community-engaged course or service-learning course; Engagement includes direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices; Improving language and intercultural communication skills that can be used to comprehend, analyze, and discuss real life topics and issues in modern Chinese society. Prerequisite: Chinese 232 or equivalent proficiency.	(FL) Foreign Language
24692	CMAC	252	LEARNING TO FAIL	Most people spend their lives afraid of failing. Yet, many of the world's most successful people failed numerous times on their paths toward success. The underlying question of this class is if failing is as antithetical to learning as we're taught to believe. To explore this question, we will test ways of using failure as a strategy for learning. We will experiment with failure to learn how it can make us better as we develop our skills as innovators, specifically focusing on the earliest stage of creativity: ideation. We will use failure through experimentation as a technique for problem definition and needs discovery which, in turn, will help us validate the quality of our ideas.	(SS) Social Sciences
24692	I&E	252	LEARNING TO FAIL	Most people spend their lives afraid of failing. Yet, many of the world's most successful people failed numerous times on their paths toward success. The underlying question of this class is if failing is as antithetical to learning as we're taught to believe. To explore this question, we will test ways of using failure as a strategy for learning. We will experiment with failure to learn how it can make us better as we develop our skills as innovators, specifically focusing on the earliest stage of creativity: ideation. We will use failure through experimentation as a technique for problem definition and needs discovery which, in turn, will help us validate the quality of our ideas.	(SS) Social Sciences
24692	ISS	252	LEARNING TO FAIL	Most people spend their lives afraid of failing. Yet, many of the world's most successful people failed numerous times on their paths toward success. The underlying question of this class is if failing is as antithetical to learning as we're taught to believe. To explore this question, we will test ways of using failure as a strategy for learning. We will experiment with failure to learn how it can make us better as we develop our skills as innovators, specifically focusing on the earliest stage of creativity: ideation. We will use failure through experimentation as a technique for problem definition and needs discovery which, in turn, will help us validate the quality of our ideas.	(SS) Social Sciences
24693	CMAC	253	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(SS) Social Sciences
24693	CMAC	253	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24693	I&E	253	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(SS) Social Sciences
24693	I&E	253	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24693	ISS	253	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(SS) Social Sciences
24693	ISS	253	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24693	VMS	255	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(SS) Social Sciences
24693	VMS	255	SOCIAL MARKETING	Typical Duke students spend hours each day using social media. You've surely heard the platforms described as 'revolutionary,' and you've also heard them described as 'time wasters.' What you probably haven't thought about is how similar they are to previous 'revolutionary' communications technologies like novels, newspapers, and even language itself. This course explores ways in which studying the masters of previous 'social' media technologiesthe Shakespeares, Whitmans, and Eliots of the worldcan help us understand how influencers on digital social media leverage the same platforms you use every day to market themselves, build their brands, and grow their audiences.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
24694	STA	 325L	MACHINE LEARNING & DATA MINING	The rapid growth of digitalized data and the computer power available to analyze it has created immense opportunities for both machine learning and data mining. This course introduces machine learning and data mining methods. Topics covered include information retrieval, clustering, classification, modern regression, cross validation, boosting and bagging. Course emphasizes selection of appropriate methods and justification of choice, use of programming for implementation of the method, and evaluation and effective communication of results in data analysis reports. Prerequisite: Prerequisite: Statistical Science 210 and (Statistical Science 240L or 230 or 231).	(QS) Quantitative Studies
24695	AAAS	211	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24695	AAAS	211	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CZ) Civilizations
24695	AAAS	211	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24695	AAAS	211	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(SS) Social Sciences
24695	CULANTH	350	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24695	CULANTH	350	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CZ) Civilizations
24695	CULANTH	350	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24695	CULANTH	350	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(SS) Social Sciences
24695	ECON	309	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24695	ECON	309	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CZ) Civilizations
24695	ECON	309	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24695	ECON	309	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(SS) Social Sciences
24695	ICS	328	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24695	ICS	328	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CZ) Civilizations
24695	ICS	328	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24695	ICS	328	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(SS) Social Sciences
24695	PUBPOL	306	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24695	PUBPOL	306	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(CZ) Civilizations
24695	PUBPOL	306	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24695	PUBPOL	306	ANTHROPOLOGY OF MONEY	We will explore the history and theory of money  what it represents, how it circulates, the meanings it carries, its contemporary transformations  not only in the West but also in the global south. Some of the topics to be considered include shell currencies, gift economies, Ponzi schemes, paperless money, derivatives and futures, hedge funds, and global debt.	(SS) Social Sciences
24697	AMES	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24697	AMES	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	(SS) Social Sciences
24697	AMES	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	Seminar
24697	ISS	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24697	ISS	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	(SS) Social Sciences
24697	ISS	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	Seminar
24697	POLSCI	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24697	POLSCI	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	(SS) Social Sciences
24697	POLSCI	 435S	CHINESE MEDIA AND POP CULTURE	Examines contemporary Chinese media traditional news press, radio and TV, new media such as the internet and social media, and popular culture, including cinema, popular music and fashions. Uses cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and comparative approach. Focuses on how China views itself and constructs its global images, and how the world views China through media and popular culture. Primary objective is to understand political, ideological, and social changes since the Reform Era that began in 1978. No foreign language prerequisites are required.	Seminar
24698	AAAS	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24698	AAAS	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24698	AAAS	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(R) Research
24698	AAAS	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(SS) Social Sciences
24698	AAAS	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	Seminar
24698	CULANTH	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24698	CULANTH	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24698	CULANTH	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(R) Research
24698	CULANTH	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(SS) Social Sciences
24698	CULANTH	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	Seminar
24698	ICS	 418S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24698	ICS	 418S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24698	ICS	 418S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(R) Research
24698	ICS	 418S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(SS) Social Sciences
24698	ICS	 418S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	Seminar
24698	LATAMER	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24698	LATAMER	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24698	LATAMER	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(R) Research
24698	LATAMER	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(SS) Social Sciences
24698	LATAMER	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	Seminar
24698	SOCIOL	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24698	SOCIOL	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24698	SOCIOL	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(R) Research
24698	SOCIOL	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	(SS) Social Sciences
24698	SOCIOL	 450S	THE GLOBAL CARIBBEAN	The course introduces students to the Caribbean as a transnational space that reflects the global dynamics associated with flows of bodies via migration, labor, and goods all of which have undergirded the birth and evolution of the (primarily) Atlantic world economy. The Global Caribbean will have a historical sociological bent that frames the region as the first modern colonial space which has served as a template for other projects of colonial and postcolonial development elsewhere in the world. Emphasis will be on the way that freedoms and unfreedoms operate in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Discussions of how knowledge has conditioned the representation of the region will be entertained.	Seminar
24701	ECE	291	PROJECTS IN ECE	Project arranged on a special topic by an instructor with related interests and expertise. For sophomore students. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
24703	I&E	 390S	ADVANCED SPECIAL TOPICS	Selected advanced topics in innovation and entrepreneurship. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
24703	I&E	 390S	ADVANCED SPECIAL TOPICS	Selected advanced topics in innovation and entrepreneurship. Instructor consent required.	Topics Course
24704	ETHICS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	First-year seminar course. Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
24704	ETHICS	  89S	FIRST-YEAR SEMINAR (TOP)	First-year seminar course. Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
24716	AAAS	 233S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(CZ) Civilizations
24716	AAAS	 233S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24716	AAAS	 233S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(R) Research
24716	AAAS	 233S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(SS) Social Sciences
24716	AAAS	 233S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(W) Writing
24716	AAAS	 233S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	Seminar
24716	DOCST	 276S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(CZ) Civilizations
24716	DOCST	 276S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24716	DOCST	 276S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(R) Research
24716	DOCST	 276S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(SS) Social Sciences
24716	DOCST	 276S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(W) Writing
24716	DOCST	 276S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	Seminar
24716	GSF	 226S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(CZ) Civilizations
24716	GSF	 226S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24716	GSF	 226S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(R) Research
24716	GSF	 226S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(SS) Social Sciences
24716	GSF	 226S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(W) Writing
24716	GSF	 226S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	Seminar
24716	HISTORY	 360S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(CZ) Civilizations
24716	HISTORY	 360S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24716	HISTORY	 360S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(R) Research
24716	HISTORY	 360S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(SS) Social Sciences
24716	HISTORY	 360S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	(W) Writing
24716	HISTORY	 360S	WRITING AMERICAN POLITICS	Reading and writing intensive seminar focused on documentary works that document and discuss US politics and political movements. Engage and analyze historical and contemporary documentary media on the Populist movement, the long civil rights movement, the modern women's movement, Black Lives Matter, Moral Mondays, and other social movements, as well as US elections and significant figures in US politics. Emphasis on 20th century. Course materials include historical writings, journalism, memoir, fiction, music, and film. Guided research on a US political phenomenon resulting in a 20-page final paper.	Seminar
24724	GSF	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24724	GSF	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(CZ) Civilizations
24724	GSF	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24724	GSF	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(SS) Social Sciences
24724	HISTORY	202	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24724	HISTORY	202	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(CZ) Civilizations
24724	HISTORY	202	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24724	HISTORY	202	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(SS) Social Sciences
24724	ICS	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
24724	ICS	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(CZ) Civilizations
24724	ICS	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24724	ICS	216	GENDER AND SOCIALISM	History of socialist feminism as a global political movement and philosophical-theoretical tradition with a special focus on its divergent national trajectories and conflict-ridden relationship with liberal feminism and socialist and communist movements and governments in Europe, Russia, China and US since the nineteenth century; offers an overview of European, Russian, Chinese and US history of the last two centuries; includes exploration of principles and aspirations that informed socialist theory of modern society, social justice, family, motherhood, parenthood, sexual difference, gender equality as well as public policies and legislation instituted or informed by the socialist tradition.	(SS) Social Sciences
24726	AMES	 190S	SP TOPICS IN AMES	Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
24726	AMES	 190S	SP TOPICS IN AMES	Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
24762	GLHLTH	 273S	PROBLEM SOLVING GLOBAL HEALTH	Global health, both international and local, has a long way to go to support healthy lives. In this class, students will have the opportunity to gain understanding of how the Entrepreneurial method can help to improve health. Students will learn about the victories and the challenges, and in the end, will be better able to be successful in their future endeavors. Students will be challenged, and will have to work, but in the end, they will be proud of their accomplishments and newfound knowledge.	(SS) Social Sciences
24762	GLHLTH	 273S	PROBLEM SOLVING GLOBAL HEALTH	Global health, both international and local, has a long way to go to support healthy lives. In this class, students will have the opportunity to gain understanding of how the Entrepreneurial method can help to improve health. Students will learn about the victories and the challenges, and in the end, will be better able to be successful in their future endeavors. Students will be challenged, and will have to work, but in the end, they will be proud of their accomplishments and newfound knowledge.	Seminar
24762	HLTHPOL	 263S	PROBLEM SOLVING GLOBAL HEALTH	Global health, both international and local, has a long way to go to support healthy lives. In this class, students will have the opportunity to gain understanding of how the Entrepreneurial method can help to improve health. Students will learn about the victories and the challenges, and in the end, will be better able to be successful in their future endeavors. Students will be challenged, and will have to work, but in the end, they will be proud of their accomplishments and newfound knowledge.	(SS) Social Sciences
24762	HLTHPOL	 263S	PROBLEM SOLVING GLOBAL HEALTH	Global health, both international and local, has a long way to go to support healthy lives. In this class, students will have the opportunity to gain understanding of how the Entrepreneurial method can help to improve health. Students will learn about the victories and the challenges, and in the end, will be better able to be successful in their future endeavors. Students will be challenged, and will have to work, but in the end, they will be proud of their accomplishments and newfound knowledge.	Seminar
24762	I&E	 263S	PROBLEM SOLVING GLOBAL HEALTH	Global health, both international and local, has a long way to go to support healthy lives. In this class, students will have the opportunity to gain understanding of how the Entrepreneurial method can help to improve health. Students will learn about the victories and the challenges, and in the end, will be better able to be successful in their future endeavors. Students will be challenged, and will have to work, but in the end, they will be proud of their accomplishments and newfound knowledge.	(SS) Social Sciences
24762	I&E	 263S	PROBLEM SOLVING GLOBAL HEALTH	Global health, both international and local, has a long way to go to support healthy lives. In this class, students will have the opportunity to gain understanding of how the Entrepreneurial method can help to improve health. Students will learn about the victories and the challenges, and in the end, will be better able to be successful in their future endeavors. Students will be challenged, and will have to work, but in the end, they will be proud of their accomplishments and newfound knowledge.	Seminar
24780	ARTHIST	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or report. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
24798	SPANISH	 390S	TOPICS IN SPANISH STUDIES	Topics in Spanish literature and culture to be announced. Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
24798	SPANISH	 390S	TOPICS IN SPANISH STUDIES	Topics in Spanish literature and culture to be announced. Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
24902	ISS	391	BASS CONN IS & CULTURE: IND ST	Bass Connections Information Science and Culture related, individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member affiliated with Bass Connections, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Consent of both the instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
24908	GLHLTH	 495S-1	GLOBAL HEALTH THESIS	Accompanies the writing of a research-focused thesis in Global Health. Provides information on the thesis writing process and feedback on student projects. Covers basics of research design (identifying appropriate research questions and related analyses), interpretation of results, writing skills and strategies, and oral presentation. Students are expected to work closely with their faculty mentor on their project. Restricted to students enrolled concurrently in a research independent study and seeking Graduate with Distinction. May be open to Program II students if thesis topic is directly related to global health and with permission of the instructor. Department consent required.	Seminar
24914	BRAINSOC	395	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOCIETY	Teams of undergraduate and graduate/professional students work with faculty to identify, explore and develop solutions to important, strategic issues where brain science impacts and is informed by society. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows, visiting fellows and researchers, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Enrollment requires prior acceptance into an associated Bass Connections in Brain and Society project team. Only students admitted into a project team will be given consent for enrollment.	(R) Research
24914	BRAINSOC	395	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOCIETY	Teams of undergraduate and graduate/professional students work with faculty to identify, explore and develop solutions to important, strategic issues where brain science impacts and is informed by society. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows, visiting fellows and researchers, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Enrollment requires prior acceptance into an associated Bass Connections in Brain and Society project team. Only students admitted into a project team will be given consent for enrollment.	Independent Study
24915	BRAINSOC	 395-1	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOCIETY	Teams of undergraduate and graduate/professional students work with faculty to identify, explore and develop solutions to important, strategic issues where brain science impacts and is informed by society. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows, visiting fellows and researchers, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Enrollment requires prior acceptance into an associated Bass Connections in Brain and Society project team. Only students admitted into a project team will be given consent for enrollment.	Independent Study
24924	AMES	 290S	SP TOPICS IN AMES	Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
24924	AMES	 290S	SP TOPICS IN AMES	Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
24941	ISS	392	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
24960	ARTHIST	392	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or report. Open to qualified students in the junior year, by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
24969	ETHICS	101	CHALLENGES LIVING ETHICAL LIFE	Familiar but fundamental ethical questions: What is a good, worthy or just life? How is it to be lived, toward what ends? Readings include dramas and philosophical analyses, parables and auto- biographies, polemics and meditations, novels and political commentaries. Introductory course for the Ethics & Society Certificate.	(CZ) Civilizations
24969	ETHICS	101	CHALLENGES LIVING ETHICAL LIFE	Familiar but fundamental ethical questions: What is a good, worthy or just life? How is it to be lived, toward what ends? Readings include dramas and philosophical analyses, parables and auto- biographies, polemics and meditations, novels and political commentaries. Introductory course for the Ethics & Society Certificate.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24969	PHIL	120	CHALLENGES LIVING ETHICAL LIFE	Familiar but fundamental ethical questions: What is a good, worthy or just life? How is it to be lived, toward what ends? Readings include dramas and philosophical analyses, parables and auto- biographies, polemics and meditations, novels and political commentaries. Introductory course for the Ethics & Society Certificate.	(CZ) Civilizations
24969	PHIL	120	CHALLENGES LIVING ETHICAL LIFE	Familiar but fundamental ethical questions: What is a good, worthy or just life? How is it to be lived, toward what ends? Readings include dramas and philosophical analyses, parables and auto- biographies, polemics and meditations, novels and political commentaries. Introductory course for the Ethics & Society Certificate.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24969	POLSCI	120	CHALLENGES LIVING ETHICAL LIFE	Familiar but fundamental ethical questions: What is a good, worthy or just life? How is it to be lived, toward what ends? Readings include dramas and philosophical analyses, parables and auto- biographies, polemics and meditations, novels and political commentaries. Introductory course for the Ethics & Society Certificate.	(CZ) Civilizations
24969	POLSCI	120	CHALLENGES LIVING ETHICAL LIFE	Familiar but fundamental ethical questions: What is a good, worthy or just life? How is it to be lived, toward what ends? Readings include dramas and philosophical analyses, parables and auto- biographies, polemics and meditations, novels and political commentaries. Introductory course for the Ethics & Society Certificate.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
24980	STA	322	STUDY DESIGN	Investigation of study designs collecting data and their implications for statistical inference. Design and analysis of surveys of populations, including stratification, clustering, multi-stage sampling, design-based inference, considerations when analyzing convenience samples and big data. Design and analysis of causal studies including randomized experiments, blocking, fractional factorial designs, non-randomized studies, propensity score analysis. Applications involving big data, health, policy, natural and social sciences. Not open to students who have taken Statistical Science 522. Recommended prerequisite: Statistical Science 210, 521, or the equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
24987	PJMS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN JOURNALISM	Selected policy, journalism and media studies topics. Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
24987	PJMS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN JOURNALISM	Selected policy, journalism and media studies topics. Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
25001	STA	 199L	INTRO TO DATA SCIENCE	Intro to data science and statistical thinking. Learn to explore, visualize, and analyze data to understand natural phenomena, investigate patterns, model outcomes, and make predictions, and do so in a reproducible and shareable manner. Gain experience in data wrangling and munging, exploratory data analysis, predictive modeling, and data visualization, and effective communication of results. Work on problems and case studies inspired by and based on real-world questions and data. The course will focus on the R statistical computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
25001	STA	 199L	INTRO TO DATA SCIENCE	Intro to data science and statistical thinking. Learn to explore, visualize, and analyze data to understand natural phenomena, investigate patterns, model outcomes, and make predictions, and do so in a reproducible and shareable manner. Gain experience in data wrangling and munging, exploratory data analysis, predictive modeling, and data visualization, and effective communication of results. Work on problems and case studies inspired by and based on real-world questions and data. The course will focus on the R statistical computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(R) Research
25001	STA	 199L	INTRO TO DATA SCIENCE	Intro to data science and statistical thinking. Learn to explore, visualize, and analyze data to understand natural phenomena, investigate patterns, model outcomes, and make predictions, and do so in a reproducible and shareable manner. Gain experience in data wrangling and munging, exploratory data analysis, predictive modeling, and data visualization, and effective communication of results. Work on problems and case studies inspired by and based on real-world questions and data. The course will focus on the R statistical computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25017	RELIGION	 266S	HARRY POTTER AND RELIGION	This course explores the response of many Christians to the Harry Potter book series. Some theologically conservative Protestants have claimed that the Potter books contain satanic messages, promote witchcraft, and celebrate practices of the occult. By contrast, many supporters of the books insist they positively convey Christian messages. By investigating the debate, 'Harry Potter & Religion' also examines the history of thought concerning 'magic' and 'religion,' the sometimes blurred boundaries between religion and science, and the place of technologies of enchantment in all of the above--magic, religion, and science alike.	(CZ) Civilizations
25017	RELIGION	 266S	HARRY POTTER AND RELIGION	This course explores the response of many Christians to the Harry Potter book series. Some theologically conservative Protestants have claimed that the Potter books contain satanic messages, promote witchcraft, and celebrate practices of the occult. By contrast, many supporters of the books insist they positively convey Christian messages. By investigating the debate, 'Harry Potter & Religion' also examines the history of thought concerning 'magic' and 'religion,' the sometimes blurred boundaries between religion and science, and the place of technologies of enchantment in all of the above--magic, religion, and science alike.	Seminar
25018	ARTHIST	284	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25018	ARTHIST	284	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25018	ARTHIST	284	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CZ) Civilizations
25018	HISTORY	263	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25018	HISTORY	263	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25018	HISTORY	263	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CZ) Civilizations
25018	POLSCI	263	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25018	POLSCI	263	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25018	POLSCI	263	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CZ) Civilizations
25018	PUBPOL	287	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25018	PUBPOL	287	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25018	PUBPOL	287	POLITICS & MODERN ARCHITECTURE	Given the needs for labor, materials, and legal permissions, architects in the modern period by definition intersect with interests of power. This course explores the role of political institutions and ideologies in the history of modern architecture. While the course focuses on European and North American examples, we will also include key case studies of non-Euroamerican architecture and politics. The course provides a foundational knowledge of the history of modern architecture as well as how political institutions and ideologies have influenced that development.	(CZ) Civilizations
25021	ARTHIST	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
25021	ARTHIST	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
25022	ARTHIST	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	(R) Research
25022	ARTHIST	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified students in the senior year. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
25023	HISTORY	 331S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25023	HISTORY	 331S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CZ) Civilizations
25023	HISTORY	 331S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(SS) Social Sciences
25023	HISTORY	 331S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	Seminar
25023	ICS	 346S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25023	ICS	 346S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CZ) Civilizations
25023	ICS	 346S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(SS) Social Sciences
25023	ICS	 346S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	Seminar
25023	POLSCI	 301S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25023	POLSCI	 301S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CZ) Civilizations
25023	POLSCI	 301S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(SS) Social Sciences
25023	POLSCI	 301S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	Seminar
25023	PUBPOL	 317S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25023	PUBPOL	 317S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CZ) Civilizations
25023	PUBPOL	 317S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(SS) Social Sciences
25023	PUBPOL	 317S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	Seminar
25023	SES	 388S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25023	SES	 388S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(CZ) Civilizations
25023	SES	 388S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	(SS) Social Sciences
25023	SES	 388S	ILLIBERAL NONDEMOCRACIES	As of 2016, only 11% of the countries in the world are liberal democracies. Some insight about how illiberal regimes function is a must to understand what is going on in the world. In this course, we explore illiberal and/or nondemocratic regimes of Eastern Europe and Asiaa perfect laboratory for the subject. We develop nuanced ideas about key concepts such as elections, representation, party rule, dictatorship, populism, patronalism, authoritarianism, and totalitarianism as well as the dilemmas of freedom, security, corruption, and development. We study the regimes of countries such as Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and follow the news to see how political regimes evolve in real time.	Seminar
25026	ROMST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
25026	ROMST	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open only to qualified seniors by consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
25027	NEUROSCI	391	INDEPENDENT SCHOLARSHIP 1	Readings, discussion, and synthesis of knowledge in a domain of special interest, under the supervision of a Neuroscience faculty member, through weekly meetings. Students produce a substantive, deliverable product by the end of the term that could be a written paper, a multimedia project, a website, an exhibition or performance, or some other original scholarly work that results from multiple iterations of draft, review, incorporation of feedback, and re-synthesis. Intended for students interested in exploring in depth specific topics not covered or only introduced in regularly available Neuroscience courses. Consent from the director of undergraduate studies is required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25027	NEUROSCI	391	INDEPENDENT SCHOLARSHIP 1	Readings, discussion, and synthesis of knowledge in a domain of special interest, under the supervision of a Neuroscience faculty member, through weekly meetings. Students produce a substantive, deliverable product by the end of the term that could be a written paper, a multimedia project, a website, an exhibition or performance, or some other original scholarly work that results from multiple iterations of draft, review, incorporation of feedback, and re-synthesis. Intended for students interested in exploring in depth specific topics not covered or only introduced in regularly available Neuroscience courses. Consent from the director of undergraduate studies is required.	Independent Study
25028	NEUROSCI	392	INDEPENDENT SCHOLARSHIP 2	Second course, to follow Neuroscience 391, on readings, weekly discussion, and synthesis of knowledge in a domain of special interest, under the supervision of a Neuroscience faculty member. Students produce a substantive, deliverable product that could be a written paper, multimedia project, website, exhibition or performance, or some other original scholarly work that results from multiple iterations of draft, review, incorporation of feedback, and re-synthesis. Intended for students interested in exploring in depth specific topics not covered or only introduced in regularly available Neuroscience courses. Consent of the director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Neuroscience 391.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25028	NEUROSCI	392	INDEPENDENT SCHOLARSHIP 2	Second course, to follow Neuroscience 391, on readings, weekly discussion, and synthesis of knowledge in a domain of special interest, under the supervision of a Neuroscience faculty member. Students produce a substantive, deliverable product that could be a written paper, multimedia project, website, exhibition or performance, or some other original scholarly work that results from multiple iterations of draft, review, incorporation of feedback, and re-synthesis. Intended for students interested in exploring in depth specific topics not covered or only introduced in regularly available Neuroscience courses. Consent of the director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Neuroscience 391.	Independent Study
25029	BRAINSOC	396	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOC 2	Teams of undergraduate/graduate/professional students work with faculty in a second term to identify, explore, and develop solutions to strategic issues in brain science and society. Teams may also include fellows, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Enrollment requires prior acceptance into an associated Bass Connections in Brain and Society project team, which is managed separately by Bass Connections administration. Consent of the director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Brain & Society 395.	(R) Research
25029	BRAINSOC	396	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOC 2	Teams of undergraduate/graduate/professional students work with faculty in a second term to identify, explore, and develop solutions to strategic issues in brain science and society. Teams may also include fellows, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Enrollment requires prior acceptance into an associated Bass Connections in Brain and Society project team, which is managed separately by Bass Connections administration. Consent of the director of undergraduate studies required. Prerequisite: Brain & Society 395.	Independent Study
25033	BIOLOGY	 347L	PLANTS AND PEOPLE	The history of humans is deeply intertwined with plants. We depend on them for food, fuel, beverages, medicine, textiles, shelter, and trade. This course explores the evolutionary diversity of plants across the Green Tree of Life and their importance to people through time, the history of their domestication, their current roles in our society, and in our ecosystems. Includes laboratory investigations and scheduled field trips.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25033	BIOLOGY	 347L	PLANTS AND PEOPLE	The history of humans is deeply intertwined with plants. We depend on them for food, fuel, beverages, medicine, textiles, shelter, and trade. This course explores the evolutionary diversity of plants across the Green Tree of Life and their importance to people through time, the history of their domestication, their current roles in our society, and in our ecosystems. Includes laboratory investigations and scheduled field trips.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25053	PHYSICS	 139S	NUCLEAR ENERGY	Core topics include: science and technology of mass-scale generation of electrical power; history, science and technology of nuclear fission reactors; methods for comparing the cost of different energy generating technologies (from mining raw materials, to constructing power plants, to disposal of byproduct and environmental cleanup, to decommission of power plants); and political and international security issues associated with nuclear fission power reactor technology. This course is highly recommended for juniors and seniors with non-science majors. Not open to students having credit for Physics 137S.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25053	PHYSICS	 139S	NUCLEAR ENERGY	Core topics include: science and technology of mass-scale generation of electrical power; history, science and technology of nuclear fission reactors; methods for comparing the cost of different energy generating technologies (from mining raw materials, to constructing power plants, to disposal of byproduct and environmental cleanup, to decommission of power plants); and political and international security issues associated with nuclear fission power reactor technology. This course is highly recommended for juniors and seniors with non-science majors. Not open to students having credit for Physics 137S.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25053	PHYSICS	 139S	NUCLEAR ENERGY	Core topics include: science and technology of mass-scale generation of electrical power; history, science and technology of nuclear fission reactors; methods for comparing the cost of different energy generating technologies (from mining raw materials, to constructing power plants, to disposal of byproduct and environmental cleanup, to decommission of power plants); and political and international security issues associated with nuclear fission power reactor technology. This course is highly recommended for juniors and seniors with non-science majors. Not open to students having credit for Physics 137S.	(W) Writing
25053	PHYSICS	 139S	NUCLEAR ENERGY	Core topics include: science and technology of mass-scale generation of electrical power; history, science and technology of nuclear fission reactors; methods for comparing the cost of different energy generating technologies (from mining raw materials, to constructing power plants, to disposal of byproduct and environmental cleanup, to decommission of power plants); and political and international security issues associated with nuclear fission power reactor technology. This course is highly recommended for juniors and seniors with non-science majors. Not open to students having credit for Physics 137S.	Seminar
25054	HISTORY	120	HISTORY OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY	This course explores the sweep of US political history. In the process, it encourages participants to think critically about what 'democracy' is, how it works, and what its vulnerabilities are. We look at the history of electoral politics in the United States, exploring the ways in which politicians have both empowered and disempowered voters. We examine grass-roots efforts to gain greater power in shaping common lifeand attempts to suppress those efforts. Throughout, we explore how people's concepts of 'democracy' have clashed and changed, and we examine how past conflicts have given rise to the political crises and opportunities of our own time.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25054	HISTORY	120	HISTORY OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY	This course explores the sweep of US political history. In the process, it encourages participants to think critically about what 'democracy' is, how it works, and what its vulnerabilities are. We look at the history of electoral politics in the United States, exploring the ways in which politicians have both empowered and disempowered voters. We examine grass-roots efforts to gain greater power in shaping common lifeand attempts to suppress those efforts. Throughout, we explore how people's concepts of 'democracy' have clashed and changed, and we examine how past conflicts have given rise to the political crises and opportunities of our own time.	(CZ) Civilizations
25105	BRAINSOC	 396-1	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOC 2	Teams of undergraduate/graduate/professional students work with faculty in a second term to identify, explore and develop solutions to strategic issues in brain science and society. Teams may also include fellows, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Enrollment requires prior acceptance into an associated Bass Connections in Brain and Society project team, which is managed separately by Bass Connections administration. Only students admitted into a project team will be given consent for enrollment. Prerequisite: Brain & Society 395-1. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
25124	RIGHTS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN RIGHTS	Topics vary by semester. Check individual semester offerings for prerequisites. Instructor consent may be required.	Seminar
25124	RIGHTS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN RIGHTS	Topics vary by semester. Check individual semester offerings for prerequisites. Instructor consent may be required.	Topics Course
25217	GERMAN	 190S-1	TOPICS IN GERMAN STUDIES	Introduction to aspects of German culture and civilization. Topics vary by semester. Taught in English.	Seminar
25217	GERMAN	 190S-1	TOPICS IN GERMAN STUDIES	Introduction to aspects of German culture and civilization. Topics vary by semester. Taught in English.	Topics Course
25219	SCISOC	 197FS	OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH TECH	From mobile phones to driverless cars, modern high-tech devices have human-facing elements that shape our relationships with technology. Some integrate seamlessly into our daily lives, others frustrate us, and some simply captivate us. Students will investigate the intersection between people and technology to better understand how design can influence performance, safety, and user satisfaction. Topics include design principles; user experience concepts; and an overview of human strengths and limitations influencing interactions with technology. Case studies will include various technologies, including emerging systems such as brain-computer interfaces, robotics and artificial intelligence. Open only to students in Focus program. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25219	SCISOC	 197FS	OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH TECH	From mobile phones to driverless cars, modern high-tech devices have human-facing elements that shape our relationships with technology. Some integrate seamlessly into our daily lives, others frustrate us, and some simply captivate us. Students will investigate the intersection between people and technology to better understand how design can influence performance, safety, and user satisfaction. Topics include design principles; user experience concepts; and an overview of human strengths and limitations influencing interactions with technology. Case studies will include various technologies, including emerging systems such as brain-computer interfaces, robotics and artificial intelligence. Open only to students in Focus program. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25219	SCISOC	 197FS	OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH TECH	From mobile phones to driverless cars, modern high-tech devices have human-facing elements that shape our relationships with technology. Some integrate seamlessly into our daily lives, others frustrate us, and some simply captivate us. Students will investigate the intersection between people and technology to better understand how design can influence performance, safety, and user satisfaction. Topics include design principles; user experience concepts; and an overview of human strengths and limitations influencing interactions with technology. Case studies will include various technologies, including emerging systems such as brain-computer interfaces, robotics and artificial intelligence. Open only to students in Focus program. Department consent required.	Seminar
25242	PHIL	 124FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	(CZ) Civilizations
25242	PHIL	 124FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25242	PHIL	 124FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	(W) Writing
25242	PHIL	 124FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	Seminar
25242	POLSCI	 195FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	(CZ) Civilizations
25242	POLSCI	 195FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25242	POLSCI	 195FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	(W) Writing
25242	POLSCI	 195FS	FREEDOM AND MORAL OBLIGATION	Are moral obligations limitations on our freedom, or are they, as some philosophers have insisted, the fullest expression of freedom? To understand the disagreement, we'll look at moral obligations, particularly social and political obligations. How do collective moral obligations, like climate change or reparations for slavery, obligate us individuallyor do they? Is freedom of speech morally required? Finally, we will consider Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in which Kant argued that we are only free when our actions are dictated entirely by morality.	Seminar
25245	PSY	 103D	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Overview of the cognitive, social, and emotional changes that occur throughout the lifespan, with emphasis on the period from infancy to adolescence. Examines both the empirical evidence (data collection and analysis) and the theoretical models (constructs using inductive-deductive reasoning) used in understanding human psychological development. Required participation in psychological research. Prerequisite: Psychology 101 strongly recommended.	(SS) Social Sciences
25246	CULANTH	 389S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25246	CULANTH	 389S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
25246	CULANTH	 389S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25246	CULANTH	 389S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25246	CULANTH	 389S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
25246	ITALIAN	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25246	ITALIAN	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
25246	ITALIAN	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25246	ITALIAN	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25246	ITALIAN	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
25246	ROMST	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25246	ROMST	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
25246	ROMST	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25246	ROMST	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25246	ROMST	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
25246	SOCIOL	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25246	SOCIOL	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
25246	SOCIOL	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25246	SOCIOL	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25246	SOCIOL	 388S	FOOD, CULTURE, & SOCIETY	This DukeImmerse course provides a broad overview of food as culture and its role in society. Exploration of the intersections between food and identity from gender, ethnic, class, religious, and political identities to how people use food to develop a sense of themselves as ethical beings. Food and democracy and food activism. Readings from anthropological, sociological, linguistic, and literary writings with ethnographic observations in local communities of practice. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
25265	AAAS	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25265	AAAS	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25265	AAAS	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
25265	AAAS	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	Seminar
25265	CULANTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25265	CULANTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25265	CULANTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
25265	CULANTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	Seminar
25265	GLHLTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25265	GLHLTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25265	GLHLTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
25265	GLHLTH	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	Seminar
25265	PSY	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25265	PSY	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25265	PSY	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
25265	PSY	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	Seminar
25265	PUBPOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25265	PUBPOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25265	PUBPOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
25265	PUBPOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	Seminar
25265	SCISOC	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25265	SCISOC	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25265	SCISOC	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
25265	SCISOC	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	Seminar
25265	SOCIOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25265	SOCIOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25265	SOCIOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	(W) Writing
25265	SOCIOL	 196FS	PATIENT ACTIVISM AND ADVOCACY	In the 1960s, patients appropriated the language and tactics of the civil rights movement to advance clinical and research agendas. Today patient activism is evolving, leading to new solutions, dilemmas, and organizational structures. This course will examine patient and research participant activism and the ways it challenges conventional notions of expertise, amateurism, 'human subjects protections,' and minimization of risk. Students will bring the tools of journalism, anthropology, humanities scholarship, public policy and community engagement/citizen science to bear on ethical and policy questions. Open only to students in the Science & the Public Focus Program cluster. Department consent required.	Seminar
25268	ENGLISH	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25268	ENGLISH	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(R) Research
25268	ENGLISH	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25268	ENGLISH	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
25268	LIT	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25268	LIT	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(R) Research
25268	LIT	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25268	LIT	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
25268	SCISOC	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25268	SCISOC	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(R) Research
25268	SCISOC	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25268	SCISOC	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
25268	THEATRST	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25268	THEATRST	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(R) Research
25268	THEATRST	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25268	THEATRST	 198FS	PERFORMING SCIENCE	Combines a historical survey of science-themed plays with an examination of sci+arts initiatives such as the University of Western Australia's Symbiotica; the Art & Science Laboratory in New Mexico; and the UK's Centre for Performance Science. Central course questions: How can performing arts improve public awareness and knowledge about complex scientific ideas and research? What points of view and methods of research do artists bring to scientific inquiry and vice-versa? We will pay particular attention to secondary schools, contemporary art installations, and science museums as public laboratories for experimental, embodied collaborations across the two disciplines. Open only to students in the Focus Program. Department consent required.	Seminar
25269	PUBPOL	 199FS	IMAGINING AMERICAN HEALTH	How has landmark public policy changed the health landscape in the United States and influenced the way we think and talk about health as a social fact? How has cultural expression both registered these changes and sought to influence law and policy? What debates have played out in public discourse regarding policies that impact health and how can attention to language and narrative literacy help us to understand both the potential and the limits of policy work? This course will explore these interactions between policies that impact health in its social context and cultural expression, focusing on photography, literature, and film.	(SS) Social Sciences
25269	PUBPOL	 199FS	IMAGINING AMERICAN HEALTH	How has landmark public policy changed the health landscape in the United States and influenced the way we think and talk about health as a social fact? How has cultural expression both registered these changes and sought to influence law and policy? What debates have played out in public discourse regarding policies that impact health and how can attention to language and narrative literacy help us to understand both the potential and the limits of policy work? This course will explore these interactions between policies that impact health in its social context and cultural expression, focusing on photography, literature, and film.	(W) Writing
25269	PUBPOL	 199FS	IMAGINING AMERICAN HEALTH	How has landmark public policy changed the health landscape in the United States and influenced the way we think and talk about health as a social fact? How has cultural expression both registered these changes and sought to influence law and policy? What debates have played out in public discourse regarding policies that impact health and how can attention to language and narrative literacy help us to understand both the potential and the limits of policy work? This course will explore these interactions between policies that impact health in its social context and cultural expression, focusing on photography, literature, and film.	Seminar
25269	SCISOC	 199FS	IMAGINING AMERICAN HEALTH	How has landmark public policy changed the health landscape in the United States and influenced the way we think and talk about health as a social fact? How has cultural expression both registered these changes and sought to influence law and policy? What debates have played out in public discourse regarding policies that impact health and how can attention to language and narrative literacy help us to understand both the potential and the limits of policy work? This course will explore these interactions between policies that impact health in its social context and cultural expression, focusing on photography, literature, and film.	(SS) Social Sciences
25269	SCISOC	 199FS	IMAGINING AMERICAN HEALTH	How has landmark public policy changed the health landscape in the United States and influenced the way we think and talk about health as a social fact? How has cultural expression both registered these changes and sought to influence law and policy? What debates have played out in public discourse regarding policies that impact health and how can attention to language and narrative literacy help us to understand both the potential and the limits of policy work? This course will explore these interactions between policies that impact health in its social context and cultural expression, focusing on photography, literature, and film.	(W) Writing
25269	SCISOC	 199FS	IMAGINING AMERICAN HEALTH	How has landmark public policy changed the health landscape in the United States and influenced the way we think and talk about health as a social fact? How has cultural expression both registered these changes and sought to influence law and policy? What debates have played out in public discourse regarding policies that impact health and how can attention to language and narrative literacy help us to understand both the potential and the limits of policy work? This course will explore these interactions between policies that impact health in its social context and cultural expression, focusing on photography, literature, and film.	Seminar
25283	COMPSCI	371	ELEMENTS OF MACHINE LEARNING	Fundamental concepts of supervised machine learning, with sample algorithms and applications. Focuses on how to think about machine learning problems and solutions, rather than on a systematic coverage of techniques. Serves as an introduction to the methods of machine learning. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201. Recommended Prerequisites: Mathematics 221, 218, or 216 or equivalent; Mathematics 212 or equivalent; and Mathematics 230, Statistical Science 230 or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
25322	BIOLOGY	325	GENOME TECHNOLOGIES	Comprehensive overview of genome science technologies, analytical tools, clinical applications, and related issues. Exposure to a range of technologies currently used in research and some in clinical practice, as well as the tools to interrogate the large data-sets generated by these technologies. Projects will explore the range of datasets publicly available and analysis of genomic datasets. Prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25322	BIOLOGY	325	GENOME TECHNOLOGIES	Comprehensive overview of genome science technologies, analytical tools, clinical applications, and related issues. Exposure to a range of technologies currently used in research and some in clinical practice, as well as the tools to interrogate the large data-sets generated by these technologies. Projects will explore the range of datasets publicly available and analysis of genomic datasets. Prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25322	MGM	325	GENOME TECHNOLOGIES	Comprehensive overview of genome science technologies, analytical tools, clinical applications, and related issues. Exposure to a range of technologies currently used in research and some in clinical practice, as well as the tools to interrogate the large data-sets generated by these technologies. Projects will explore the range of datasets publicly available and analysis of genomic datasets. Prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25322	MGM	325	GENOME TECHNOLOGIES	Comprehensive overview of genome science technologies, analytical tools, clinical applications, and related issues. Exposure to a range of technologies currently used in research and some in clinical practice, as well as the tools to interrogate the large data-sets generated by these technologies. Projects will explore the range of datasets publicly available and analysis of genomic datasets. Prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25332	CINE	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25332	CINE	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(W) Writing
25332	CINE	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	Seminar
25332	ETHICS	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25332	ETHICS	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(W) Writing
25332	ETHICS	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	Seminar
25332	PJMS	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25332	PJMS	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(W) Writing
25332	PJMS	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	Seminar
25332	POLSCI	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25332	POLSCI	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(W) Writing
25332	POLSCI	 374S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	Seminar
25332	PUBPOL	 357S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25332	PUBPOL	 357S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	(W) Writing
25332	PUBPOL	 357S	WATCHDOG NEWS AND STORYTELLING	Focus on evolving styles of explanatory reporting and investigative journalism. Practice fundamental research and writing techniques that journalists use to reveal complex issues and hold powerful institutions and people accountable. Identify sources, develop interviewing skills, and tap public records. Analyze stories that can serve as engaging models for your assignments, such as fact-checks, solutions-focused articles, and first-person accounts that turn the reporting process into a narrative device. Learn about editorial rules and writing conventions, including their ethical underpinnings and the role of objective methods. Talk with guest journalists about their experiences.	Seminar
25333	PJMS	375	DATA JOURNALISM	Teaches the tools and techniques used by investigative journalists to acquire and analyze data in order to discover story ideas and draw and evaluate conclusions about politicians, public policy, broader behavior of public institutions. Students should have basic familiarity with journalism concepts, but no specific technical or mathematical skills required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25333	PJMS	375	DATA JOURNALISM	Teaches the tools and techniques used by investigative journalists to acquire and analyze data in order to discover story ideas and draw and evaluate conclusions about politicians, public policy, broader behavior of public institutions. Students should have basic familiarity with journalism concepts, but no specific technical or mathematical skills required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25333	PUBPOL	343	DATA JOURNALISM	Teaches the tools and techniques used by investigative journalists to acquire and analyze data in order to discover story ideas and draw and evaluate conclusions about politicians, public policy, broader behavior of public institutions. Students should have basic familiarity with journalism concepts, but no specific technical or mathematical skills required.	(SS) Social Sciences
25333	PUBPOL	343	DATA JOURNALISM	Teaches the tools and techniques used by investigative journalists to acquire and analyze data in order to discover story ideas and draw and evaluate conclusions about politicians, public policy, broader behavior of public institutions. Students should have basic familiarity with journalism concepts, but no specific technical or mathematical skills required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25337	AAAS	 317S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25337	AAAS	 317S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(CZ) Civilizations
25337	AAAS	 317S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(R) Research
25337	AAAS	 317S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(SS) Social Sciences
25337	AAAS	 317S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(W) Writing
25337	AAAS	 317S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	Seminar
25337	HISTORY	 341S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25337	HISTORY	 341S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(CZ) Civilizations
25337	HISTORY	 341S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(R) Research
25337	HISTORY	 341S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(SS) Social Sciences
25337	HISTORY	 341S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(W) Writing
25337	HISTORY	 341S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	Seminar
25337	ICS	 221S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25337	ICS	 221S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(CZ) Civilizations
25337	ICS	 221S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(R) Research
25337	ICS	 221S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(SS) Social Sciences
25337	ICS	 221S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	(W) Writing
25337	ICS	 221S	AFRICA BEFORE COLONIALISM	This undergraduate seminar considers the history of Africa south of the Sahara from the beginning of the Holocene era to 1800, focusing on processes of community formation and political and social change. Using a variety of sources and methods, it traces major debates and themes in the 'deep' African past across a number of regions and time periods. These themes include state formation, the dynamic reproduction of social structures through migration, the political meanings of health and healing, the development of ideas about gender, the relationship between Islam and Christianity and other cosmologies, and Africa's interaction with the wider world.	Seminar
25342	LATIN	251	REFRESHER LATIN	This course is for first-year students who have had high school Latin and want or need a single refresher or preparatory course to transition to advanced (300-level) Latin. It includes grammar review and readings of real (unsimplified) prose and poetry texts not read in high school. Students must have at least 3 years of high school Latin (or the equivalent).	(FL) Foreign Language
25344	SOCIOL	223	DATA ANALYTICS FOR BUSINESS	This course gives students hands-on experience working with and analyzing data. The overarching objective is to learn to use basic statistics and quantitative modeling to understand the large amount of data that are available today.	(SS) Social Sciences
25349	NEUROSCI	 217D	INTRO COGNITIVE NEUROSCI	The biological bases of higher brain function, including perception, attention, memory, language, emotion, executive functions and consciousness. Emphasis on human brain function at the macroscopic network-level, and the current theories and controversies in this rapidly growing field. Course is not recommended for freshmen. Prerequisite: Neuroscience 101/Psychology 106 or Neuroscience 102/Psychology 107 or Psychology 102 or Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neurobiology 195FS/Neuroscience 195FS.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25349	PSY	 217D	INTRO COGNITIVE NEUROSCI	The biological bases of higher brain function, including perception, attention, memory, language, emotion, executive functions and consciousness. Emphasis on human brain function at the macroscopic network-level, and the current theories and controversies in this rapidly growing field. Course is not recommended for freshmen. Prerequisite: Neuroscience 101/Psychology 106 or Neuroscience 102/Psychology 107 or Psychology 102 or Neuroscience 201/Psychology 275/Biology 224 or Neurobiology 195FS/Neuroscience 195FS.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25352	ECON	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, containing significant quantitative analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Department consent required. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D.	(R) Research
25352	ECON	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, containing significant quantitative analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Department consent required. Prerequisite: Economics 201D and 210D.	Independent Study
25427	MUSIC	 401-1	ADVANCED VOCAL PERFORMANCE	Open only to sophomores, juniors, and seniors possessing an exceptional technical and interpretative command of a musical medium. Requires either a half-length recital at the end of each semester of study or a full-length recital at the end of the second semester. In the latter case, a brief performance before a jury of music department faculty is required at the end of the first semester. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: previous registration in private instruction in applied voice at Duke, audition, consent of instructor, and completion of or concurrent enrollment in Music 115S. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25563	AMES	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25563	AMES	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25563	AMES	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(CZ) Civilizations
25563	AMES	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25563	AMES	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	Seminar
25563	ICS	 357S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25563	ICS	 357S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25563	ICS	 357S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(CZ) Civilizations
25563	ICS	 357S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25563	ICS	 357S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	Seminar
25563	THEATRST	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25563	THEATRST	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25563	THEATRST	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(CZ) Civilizations
25563	THEATRST	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25563	THEATRST	 338S	GLOBALIZATION AND THEATER	This course surveys the various ways in which contemporary theatre has been created and circulated in a global context.	Seminar
25588	PSY	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study on a previously approved topic under the supervision of a faculty member and resulting in a significant product that promotes understanding or application of psychological science. Junior year fall. Department consent required.	Independent Study
25590	PSY	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study on a previously approved topic under the supervision of a faculty member and resulting in a significant product that promotes understanding or application of psychological science.. Senior year fall. Department consent required.	Independent Study
25592	ARTSVIS	 264S	PUPPETRY	This course explores the conception and creation of various forms of puppetry. Students will investigate methods of building and performing puppets while looking into the strengths of different forms and styles. In addition students will be exposed to the incredible variety of contemporary world puppetry.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25592	ARTSVIS	 264S	PUPPETRY	This course explores the conception and creation of various forms of puppetry. Students will investigate methods of building and performing puppets while looking into the strengths of different forms and styles. In addition students will be exposed to the incredible variety of contemporary world puppetry.	Seminar
25592	THEATRST	 264S	PUPPETRY	This course explores the conception and creation of various forms of puppetry. Students will investigate methods of building and performing puppets while looking into the strengths of different forms and styles. In addition students will be exposed to the incredible variety of contemporary world puppetry.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25592	THEATRST	 264S	PUPPETRY	This course explores the conception and creation of various forms of puppetry. Students will investigate methods of building and performing puppets while looking into the strengths of different forms and styles. In addition students will be exposed to the incredible variety of contemporary world puppetry.	Seminar
25625	POLSCI	 402S	ORIGINS OF WWI & WWII	Seminar will examine major scholarly works from History and Political Science that address the same question, namely, how can we explain the origins of World War I and World War II in Europe? Consider how these two disciplines explain why the Cold War did not escalate to full-blown war. Will provide students with an opportunity to undertake a significant research project, with opportunities to use one or another of the two disciplines or to undertake some form of integration across the two fields.	(R) Research
25625	POLSCI	 402S	ORIGINS OF WWI & WWII	Seminar will examine major scholarly works from History and Political Science that address the same question, namely, how can we explain the origins of World War I and World War II in Europe? Consider how these two disciplines explain why the Cold War did not escalate to full-blown war. Will provide students with an opportunity to undertake a significant research project, with opportunities to use one or another of the two disciplines or to undertake some form of integration across the two fields.	(SS) Social Sciences
25625	POLSCI	 402S	ORIGINS OF WWI & WWII	Seminar will examine major scholarly works from History and Political Science that address the same question, namely, how can we explain the origins of World War I and World War II in Europe? Consider how these two disciplines explain why the Cold War did not escalate to full-blown war. Will provide students with an opportunity to undertake a significant research project, with opportunities to use one or another of the two disciplines or to undertake some form of integration across the two fields.	Seminar
25626	ARTHIST	227	MEDIEVAL CASTLES OF EUROPE	This course will examine the transition of Western Europe into a fortified landscape from the mid-11th century until the advent of large-scale artillery in the mid-15th century. In addition to tracking technological and stylistic changes over time, this course will identify the discrete elements of fortification that were combined into a variety of castle plans. Natural resources and physical topography will emerge as central factors in the choice of site and design for medieval castles. As a way of investigating these topics, students will digitally reconstruct a historical or imagined castle in 3D graphics at a specific place and time covered in the course.	(CZ) Civilizations
25626	ARTHIST	227	MEDIEVAL CASTLES OF EUROPE	This course will examine the transition of Western Europe into a fortified landscape from the mid-11th century until the advent of large-scale artillery in the mid-15th century. In addition to tracking technological and stylistic changes over time, this course will identify the discrete elements of fortification that were combined into a variety of castle plans. Natural resources and physical topography will emerge as central factors in the choice of site and design for medieval castles. As a way of investigating these topics, students will digitally reconstruct a historical or imagined castle in 3D graphics at a specific place and time covered in the course.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25626	MEDREN	226	MEDIEVAL CASTLES OF EUROPE	This course will examine the transition of Western Europe into a fortified landscape from the mid-11th century until the advent of large-scale artillery in the mid-15th century. In addition to tracking technological and stylistic changes over time, this course will identify the discrete elements of fortification that were combined into a variety of castle plans. Natural resources and physical topography will emerge as central factors in the choice of site and design for medieval castles. As a way of investigating these topics, students will digitally reconstruct a historical or imagined castle in 3D graphics at a specific place and time covered in the course.	(CZ) Civilizations
25626	MEDREN	226	MEDIEVAL CASTLES OF EUROPE	This course will examine the transition of Western Europe into a fortified landscape from the mid-11th century until the advent of large-scale artillery in the mid-15th century. In addition to tracking technological and stylistic changes over time, this course will identify the discrete elements of fortification that were combined into a variety of castle plans. Natural resources and physical topography will emerge as central factors in the choice of site and design for medieval castles. As a way of investigating these topics, students will digitally reconstruct a historical or imagined castle in 3D graphics at a specific place and time covered in the course.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25645	BME	 390L	SPECIAL TOPICS WITH A LAB	Topics vary from semester to semester.	Topics Course
25653	AAAS	 285S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25653	AAAS	 285S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
25653	AAAS	 285S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	Seminar
25653	HISTORY	 217S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25653	HISTORY	 217S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
25653	HISTORY	 217S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	Seminar
25653	ICS	 242S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25653	ICS	 242S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
25653	ICS	 242S	NIGERIA: A MODERN HISTORY	Nigeria is Africa's largest country by population, its largest economy, and one of the most diverse nation-states in the contemporary world. It is also a place of considerable poverty, wealth disparity, and political discord. How did Nigeria become this country of superlatives, good and bad? This course examines Nigeria's history over the last two centuriesa period encompassing the Atlantic trade in enslaved Africans, British colonial rule, the era of decolonization, and the recent histories of military rule and democracy. Along the way, we will consider Nigeria's place in the broader history of modern Africa.	Seminar
25654	PSY	222	MOTIVATION SCIENCE	An overview of the concept of motivation and its use in psychological theory and research. This survey course will examine psychological theory and research on core human motives, such as needs for autonomy, competence, and belonging and the role they may play in determining self-regulation, behavior, and emotional experience. In doing so, this course will also consider how motivations are addressed both deliberately and automatically, through goal setting and goal pursuit and the implications for understanding situational influences, individual difference and psychological well-being.	(SS) Social Sciences
25657	PHYSICS	346	PARTICLE PHYSICS: INTRODUCTION	Particle physics is the study of the fundamental nature of the universe, including its fundamental constituents and the fields through which they interact. This course introduces our current understanding, starting with a review of special relativity and quantum mechanics, before discussing their application to particle physics, the importance of symmetries, experimental techniques (including introductions to how particle colliders and detectors work), statistical and computing methods for data analysis, philosophical considerations in our quest for a fundamental understanding, and prospects for the future. Prerequisite: Physics 264L. Recommended prerequisite: Physics 141L/142L, 151L/152L, or 161L/162L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25657	PHYSICS	346	PARTICLE PHYSICS: INTRODUCTION	Particle physics is the study of the fundamental nature of the universe, including its fundamental constituents and the fields through which they interact. This course introduces our current understanding, starting with a review of special relativity and quantum mechanics, before discussing their application to particle physics, the importance of symmetries, experimental techniques (including introductions to how particle colliders and detectors work), statistical and computing methods for data analysis, philosophical considerations in our quest for a fundamental understanding, and prospects for the future. Prerequisite: Physics 264L. Recommended prerequisite: Physics 141L/142L, 151L/152L, or 161L/162L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
25658	VMS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN VMS	Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
25658	VMS	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN VMS	Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
25690	ECON	 337S	INEQUALITIES AND LOW-WAGE WORK	This course introduces students to several, different economic theories and viewpoints regarding social inequality, class, and socio-economic status in the United States. Current debates are discussed, such as the possible raising of the minimum wage. Students also gain first-hand knowledge concerning the livelihood strategies of low-wage workers in Durham, through students' participation in a service-learning project in the community.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25690	ECON	 337S	INEQUALITIES AND LOW-WAGE WORK	This course introduces students to several, different economic theories and viewpoints regarding social inequality, class, and socio-economic status in the United States. Current debates are discussed, such as the possible raising of the minimum wage. Students also gain first-hand knowledge concerning the livelihood strategies of low-wage workers in Durham, through students' participation in a service-learning project in the community.	(SS) Social Sciences
25690	ECON	 337S	INEQUALITIES AND LOW-WAGE WORK	This course introduces students to several, different economic theories and viewpoints regarding social inequality, class, and socio-economic status in the United States. Current debates are discussed, such as the possible raising of the minimum wage. Students also gain first-hand knowledge concerning the livelihood strategies of low-wage workers in Durham, through students' participation in a service-learning project in the community.	Seminar
25694	ARTSVIS	 317S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25694	ARTSVIS	 317S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25694	ARTSVIS	 317S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(CZ) Civilizations
25694	ARTSVIS	 317S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(R) Research
25694	ARTSVIS	 317S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(W) Writing
25694	ARTSVIS	 317S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	Seminar
25694	DANCE	 318S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25694	DANCE	 318S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25694	DANCE	 318S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(CZ) Civilizations
25694	DANCE	 318S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(R) Research
25694	DANCE	 318S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(W) Writing
25694	DANCE	 318S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	Seminar
25694	THEATRST	 320S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25694	THEATRST	 320S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25694	THEATRST	 320S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(CZ) Civilizations
25694	THEATRST	 320S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(R) Research
25694	THEATRST	 320S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	(W) Writing
25694	THEATRST	 320S	MOVEMENT IN QUESTION	This writing-intensive seminar casts students as a research team engaging in multiple ways with the interdisciplinary field of critical dance studies. Students read and analyze foundational texts and theories, develop capacity to interpretively analyze movement, and practically engage in embodied activities that make gaps between textual representation and embodiment visible. This holistic approach throws movement into question and centralizes dance as a critical way of making the social world. Final Research Projects include conventional academic papers or choreographed performances that engage issues raised in the course. Zero dance experience required. All physical abilities welcomed.	Seminar
25903	ARTSVIS	 107L	FUNDAMENTALS OF ART AND DESIGN	This course introduces the theory and practice of the fundamentals of design. Students explore critical thinking, visual literacy, elements and principles of design, color, composition, typography and other design topics to lay a basic foundation in the visual arts. Through lectures, readings and exercises students gain knowledge of visual concepts and vocabulary, explore formal elements and principles of design, analyze iconic design to understand what makes it great, and experience different physical and digital media. Hands-on assignments will inspire students, and challenge them to explore the practice of design and art, and to work towards successful solutions through experimentation.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25906	LATIN	 376S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25906	LATIN	 376S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	(CZ) Civilizations
25906	LATIN	 376S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	(FL) Foreign Language
25906	LATIN	 376S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	Seminar
25906	MEDREN	 348S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25906	MEDREN	 348S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	(CZ) Civilizations
25906	MEDREN	 348S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	(FL) Foreign Language
25906	MEDREN	 348S	MEDIEVAL LATIN	Survey of medieval Latin literature, sampling authors and genres from Late Antiquity through the Italian Renaissance. Genres may include biblical literature, late ancient and medieval hymns, letters, medieval plays, sacred and secular poetry including epic, historiography, and Arthurian literature.	Seminar
25921	BRAINSOC	397	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOC 3	Teams of undergraduate/graduate/professional students work with faculty in a third term to identify, explore and develop solutions to strategic issues in brain science and society. Teams may also include fellows, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Prerequisite: Brain & Society 395 and 396. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
25922	BRAINSOC	 397-1	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOC 3	Teams of undergraduate/graduate/professional students work with faculty in a third term to identify, explore and develop solutions to strategic issues in brain science and society. Teams may also include fellows, community partners, and other experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Prerequisite: any two of the following courses: Brain & Society 395, 395-1, 396, and 396-1. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
25924	BRAINSOC	 398-1	CONNECTIONS IN BRAIN & SOC 4	Teams of undergraduate/graduate/professional students work with faculty in a fourth term to identify, explore and develop solutions to strategic issues in brain science and society. Teams may include fellows, community partners, and experts from business, government, and the non-profit sector. The work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing, faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, laboratory-based research, field work, and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires substantive paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Prerequisite: any three of the following courses: Brain & Society 395, 395-1, 396, 396-1, 397, and 397-1. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
25935	THEATRST	 334S	MODERN DRAMA: 1880-1940	In this course, we analyze key texts from the history of modern dramatic literature starting in the late nineteenth century and proceeding to 1940. Starting with the flourishing of realism and naturalism in Scandinavia, we trace the rapid evolution of dramatic forms that characterized playwriting in Europe, England, and the United States. We will analyze not only the scripts but also various productions of each of these significant plays by significant playwrights, ranging from Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg to Gertrude Stein and Eugene O'Neill.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25935	THEATRST	 334S	MODERN DRAMA: 1880-1940	In this course, we analyze key texts from the history of modern dramatic literature starting in the late nineteenth century and proceeding to 1940. Starting with the flourishing of realism and naturalism in Scandinavia, we trace the rapid evolution of dramatic forms that characterized playwriting in Europe, England, and the United States. We will analyze not only the scripts but also various productions of each of these significant plays by significant playwrights, ranging from Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg to Gertrude Stein and Eugene O'Neill.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25935	THEATRST	 334S	MODERN DRAMA: 1880-1940	In this course, we analyze key texts from the history of modern dramatic literature starting in the late nineteenth century and proceeding to 1940. Starting with the flourishing of realism and naturalism in Scandinavia, we trace the rapid evolution of dramatic forms that characterized playwriting in Europe, England, and the United States. We will analyze not only the scripts but also various productions of each of these significant plays by significant playwrights, ranging from Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg to Gertrude Stein and Eugene O'Neill.	(CZ) Civilizations
25935	THEATRST	 334S	MODERN DRAMA: 1880-1940	In this course, we analyze key texts from the history of modern dramatic literature starting in the late nineteenth century and proceeding to 1940. Starting with the flourishing of realism and naturalism in Scandinavia, we trace the rapid evolution of dramatic forms that characterized playwriting in Europe, England, and the United States. We will analyze not only the scripts but also various productions of each of these significant plays by significant playwrights, ranging from Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg to Gertrude Stein and Eugene O'Neill.	(W) Writing
25935	THEATRST	 334S	MODERN DRAMA: 1880-1940	In this course, we analyze key texts from the history of modern dramatic literature starting in the late nineteenth century and proceeding to 1940. Starting with the flourishing of realism and naturalism in Scandinavia, we trace the rapid evolution of dramatic forms that characterized playwriting in Europe, England, and the United States. We will analyze not only the scripts but also various productions of each of these significant plays by significant playwrights, ranging from Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg to Gertrude Stein and Eugene O'Neill.	Seminar
25936	MUSIC	 101-6	CLASS PERCUSSION	Group lessons focused on the development of basic technique for percussion. Students will observe their peers during lessons and will perform literature appropriate to each individual's skill level. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25938	ARTSVIS	 303S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25938	ARTSVIS	 303S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	(W) Writing
25938	ARTSVIS	 303S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	Seminar
25938	CINE	 303S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25938	CINE	 303S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	(W) Writing
25938	CINE	 303S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	Seminar
25938	VMS	 338S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25938	VMS	 338S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	(W) Writing
25938	VMS	 338S	WRITING THE SHORT FILM	In-depth study of the short format movie. Development of short film concept and script, including pre-production, storyboarding, and look books.	Seminar
25946	AMES	 195S	GTWY: RETHINKING ASIA AND ME	Studies intellectual concepts and cultural frameworks from Asia at large; compares normative European and North American conceptions of East Asia and the Middle East with contemporary challenges; examines how they internalize, negotiate and resisted Eurocentric knowledge; and focuses on nation, gender and race.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25946	AMES	 195S	GTWY: RETHINKING ASIA AND ME	Studies intellectual concepts and cultural frameworks from Asia at large; compares normative European and North American conceptions of East Asia and the Middle East with contemporary challenges; examines how they internalize, negotiate and resisted Eurocentric knowledge; and focuses on nation, gender and race.	(CZ) Civilizations
25946	AMES	 195S	GTWY: RETHINKING ASIA AND ME	Studies intellectual concepts and cultural frameworks from Asia at large; compares normative European and North American conceptions of East Asia and the Middle East with contemporary challenges; examines how they internalize, negotiate and resisted Eurocentric knowledge; and focuses on nation, gender and race.	Seminar
25946	CULANTH	 195S	GTWY: RETHINKING ASIA AND ME	Studies intellectual concepts and cultural frameworks from Asia at large; compares normative European and North American conceptions of East Asia and the Middle East with contemporary challenges; examines how they internalize, negotiate and resisted Eurocentric knowledge; and focuses on nation, gender and race.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25946	CULANTH	 195S	GTWY: RETHINKING ASIA AND ME	Studies intellectual concepts and cultural frameworks from Asia at large; compares normative European and North American conceptions of East Asia and the Middle East with contemporary challenges; examines how they internalize, negotiate and resisted Eurocentric knowledge; and focuses on nation, gender and race.	(CZ) Civilizations
25946	CULANTH	 195S	GTWY: RETHINKING ASIA AND ME	Studies intellectual concepts and cultural frameworks from Asia at large; compares normative European and North American conceptions of East Asia and the Middle East with contemporary challenges; examines how they internalize, negotiate and resisted Eurocentric knowledge; and focuses on nation, gender and race.	Seminar
25948	SPANISH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN SPANISH	For students with advanced or native Spanish, a gateway to the Spanish major focusing on global humanities in Spanish. Key humanistic contributions in peninsular, Latin American, and Latinx contexts, as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From colonial /indigenous encounter to border studies, Cervantes to Jos Mart and Rosario Castellanos to Sandra CIsneros, political economy to food studies, and natural history to decolonial arts and literatures. Novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in Spanish. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP Spanish exam score of 5, or other advanced Spanish training.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25948	SPANISH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN SPANISH	For students with advanced or native Spanish, a gateway to the Spanish major focusing on global humanities in Spanish. Key humanistic contributions in peninsular, Latin American, and Latinx contexts, as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From colonial /indigenous encounter to border studies, Cervantes to Jos Mart and Rosario Castellanos to Sandra CIsneros, political economy to food studies, and natural history to decolonial arts and literatures. Novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in Spanish. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP Spanish exam score of 5, or other advanced Spanish training.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25948	SPANISH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN SPANISH	For students with advanced or native Spanish, a gateway to the Spanish major focusing on global humanities in Spanish. Key humanistic contributions in peninsular, Latin American, and Latinx contexts, as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From colonial /indigenous encounter to border studies, Cervantes to Jos Mart and Rosario Castellanos to Sandra CIsneros, political economy to food studies, and natural history to decolonial arts and literatures. Novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in Spanish. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP Spanish exam score of 5, or other advanced Spanish training.	(CZ) Civilizations
25948	SPANISH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN SPANISH	For students with advanced or native Spanish, a gateway to the Spanish major focusing on global humanities in Spanish. Key humanistic contributions in peninsular, Latin American, and Latinx contexts, as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From colonial /indigenous encounter to border studies, Cervantes to Jos Mart and Rosario Castellanos to Sandra CIsneros, political economy to food studies, and natural history to decolonial arts and literatures. Novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in Spanish. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP Spanish exam score of 5, or other advanced Spanish training.	(FL) Foreign Language
25948	SPANISH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN SPANISH	For students with advanced or native Spanish, a gateway to the Spanish major focusing on global humanities in Spanish. Key humanistic contributions in peninsular, Latin American, and Latinx contexts, as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From colonial /indigenous encounter to border studies, Cervantes to Jos Mart and Rosario Castellanos to Sandra CIsneros, political economy to food studies, and natural history to decolonial arts and literatures. Novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in Spanish. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP Spanish exam score of 5, or other advanced Spanish training.	(W) Writing
25948	SPANISH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN SPANISH	For students with advanced or native Spanish, a gateway to the Spanish major focusing on global humanities in Spanish. Key humanistic contributions in peninsular, Latin American, and Latinx contexts, as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From colonial /indigenous encounter to border studies, Cervantes to Jos Mart and Rosario Castellanos to Sandra CIsneros, political economy to food studies, and natural history to decolonial arts and literatures. Novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in Spanish. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP Spanish exam score of 5, or other advanced Spanish training.	Seminar
25949	FRENCH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN FRENCH	For students with advanced or native French, a gateway to the French major focusing on global humanities in French. Key French-language humanistic cultural contributions as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From Montesquieu's Enlightenment Les Lettres persanes to Satrapi's franco-Iranian graphic memoir Persepolis, the French to the Haitian Revolution, and African philosophy to French existentialism. Cultural objects including novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in French. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP French exam score of 5, or other advanced French preparation in secondary schooling.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25949	FRENCH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN FRENCH	For students with advanced or native French, a gateway to the French major focusing on global humanities in French. Key French-language humanistic cultural contributions as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From Montesquieu's Enlightenment Les Lettres persanes to Satrapi's franco-Iranian graphic memoir Persepolis, the French to the Haitian Revolution, and African philosophy to French existentialism. Cultural objects including novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in French. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP French exam score of 5, or other advanced French preparation in secondary schooling.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25949	FRENCH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN FRENCH	For students with advanced or native French, a gateway to the French major focusing on global humanities in French. Key French-language humanistic cultural contributions as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From Montesquieu's Enlightenment Les Lettres persanes to Satrapi's franco-Iranian graphic memoir Persepolis, the French to the Haitian Revolution, and African philosophy to French existentialism. Cultural objects including novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in French. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP French exam score of 5, or other advanced French preparation in secondary schooling.	(CZ) Civilizations
25949	FRENCH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN FRENCH	For students with advanced or native French, a gateway to the French major focusing on global humanities in French. Key French-language humanistic cultural contributions as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From Montesquieu's Enlightenment Les Lettres persanes to Satrapi's franco-Iranian graphic memoir Persepolis, the French to the Haitian Revolution, and African philosophy to French existentialism. Cultural objects including novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in French. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP French exam score of 5, or other advanced French preparation in secondary schooling.	(FL) Foreign Language
25949	FRENCH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN FRENCH	For students with advanced or native French, a gateway to the French major focusing on global humanities in French. Key French-language humanistic cultural contributions as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From Montesquieu's Enlightenment Les Lettres persanes to Satrapi's franco-Iranian graphic memoir Persepolis, the French to the Haitian Revolution, and African philosophy to French existentialism. Cultural objects including novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in French. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP French exam score of 5, or other advanced French preparation in secondary schooling.	(W) Writing
25949	FRENCH	 316S	GLOBAL HUMANITIES IN FRENCH	For students with advanced or native French, a gateway to the French major focusing on global humanities in French. Key French-language humanistic cultural contributions as organized around comparative themes, regions, and eras. From Montesquieu's Enlightenment Les Lettres persanes to Satrapi's franco-Iranian graphic memoir Persepolis, the French to the Haitian Revolution, and African philosophy to French existentialism. Cultural objects including novels, films, poems, and paintings, as well as critical and historical writingin digestible bites. Frequent, diverse writing assignments and group work. A foundation for lifelong cultural navigation/enrichment in French. Recommended prerequisite: native speaker status, AP French exam score of 5, or other advanced French preparation in secondary schooling.	Seminar
25950	ARTHIST	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25950	ARTHIST	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	(CZ) Civilizations
25950	ARTHIST	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	Seminar
25950	GSF	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25950	GSF	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	(CZ) Civilizations
25950	GSF	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	Seminar
25950	MEDREN	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
25950	MEDREN	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	(CZ) Civilizations
25950	MEDREN	 245S	WOMEN IN VIS ARTS, 1400-1800	Through lectures, discussion and individual projects, this course considers the roles women have played in the Early Modern art world as makers, buyers, patrons, donors, critics, and art collectors. It also takes up issues of gender, of race, of masculinity as well as femininity. A central theme of this class is how debates about the so-called Woman Question, which was essentially an ongoing quarrel about the nature and social role of women, shaped the representations and experiences of women of different classes and conditions. Our focus will be on visual representations, as well as period writing of and by women.	Seminar
25951	GSF	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25951	GSF	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CZ) Civilizations
25951	GSF	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25951	GSF	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	Seminar
25951	LIT	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25951	LIT	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CZ) Civilizations
25951	LIT	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25951	LIT	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	Seminar
25951	LSGS	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25951	LSGS	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CZ) Civilizations
25951	LSGS	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25951	LSGS	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	Seminar
25951	NEUROSCI	 250S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25951	NEUROSCI	 250S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CZ) Civilizations
25951	NEUROSCI	 250S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25951	NEUROSCI	 250S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	Seminar
25951	ROMST	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25951	ROMST	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(CZ) Civilizations
25951	ROMST	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25951	ROMST	 350S	BRAINS, EVERYWHERE	Over the last three decades we have the witnessed the speedy rise of the 'neurosciences,' an historical event characterized by some as a 'neuro-revolution' that has given rise to a 'neuro-society,' 'neuro-cultures,' and 'neuro-subjects.' In this seminar we will track this history and ask what change in meaning might 'neuro' effect in the disciplines that were previously 'neuro'-free. If there is a neuro-turn in the humanities and social sciences, what is it that's 'turning'? We will consider the centrality of brain research in these discussions to ask questions about the meaning of 'personhood/subjectivity,' 'human/post human,' 'mind/body,' 'self/ego,' and 'emotion/affect.'	Seminar
25953	AADS	 337S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25953	AADS	 337S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CZ) Civilizations
25953	AADS	 337S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25953	AADS	 337S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(SS) Social Sciences
25953	AADS	 337S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	Seminar
25953	GSF	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25953	GSF	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CZ) Civilizations
25953	GSF	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25953	GSF	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(SS) Social Sciences
25953	GSF	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	Seminar
25953	HISTORY	 289S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25953	HISTORY	 289S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CZ) Civilizations
25953	HISTORY	 289S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25953	HISTORY	 289S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(SS) Social Sciences
25953	HISTORY	 289S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	Seminar
25953	ICS	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
25953	ICS	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(CZ) Civilizations
25953	ICS	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25953	ICS	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	(SS) Social Sciences
25953	ICS	 335S	DECOLONIZATION	This course explores decolonization as an historical event, a category of theoretical analysis, and a series of contemporary social movements. Course material will introduce students to the history of decolonization as both idea and event, putting global anti-colonial movements of the twentieth century into conversation with contemporary struggles for the decolonization of occupied land, institutions, and epistemologies. This interdisciplinary course draws on work in history, geography, anthropology, women's studies, and postcolonial and decolonial Studies. Students will also read and research manifestos, memoirs, archival documents, documentary films, oral histories, and museum exhibits.	Seminar
25962	BIOLOGY	 422LS	NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE LAB	This course will bring students into a basic research setting to directly contribute to our understanding of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of neurodegenerative disease. Classic experimental approaches in the lab (fruit fly genetics, molecular techniques, dissection, immunocytochemistry, microscopy) will be paired with short lectures, literature-based discussions, and data presentations. Students should, through firsthand experience, gain an appreciation for 1) the life cycle of basic research, 2) the utility, challenges, and caveats of various approaches to understanding disease, and 3) the elegance and relevance of gene and cell function across organisms. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25962	BIOLOGY	 422LS	NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE LAB	This course will bring students into a basic research setting to directly contribute to our understanding of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of neurodegenerative disease. Classic experimental approaches in the lab (fruit fly genetics, molecular techniques, dissection, immunocytochemistry, microscopy) will be paired with short lectures, literature-based discussions, and data presentations. Students should, through firsthand experience, gain an appreciation for 1) the life cycle of basic research, 2) the utility, challenges, and caveats of various approaches to understanding disease, and 3) the elegance and relevance of gene and cell function across organisms. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(R) Research
25962	BIOLOGY	 422LS	NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE LAB	This course will bring students into a basic research setting to directly contribute to our understanding of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of neurodegenerative disease. Classic experimental approaches in the lab (fruit fly genetics, molecular techniques, dissection, immunocytochemistry, microscopy) will be paired with short lectures, literature-based discussions, and data presentations. Students should, through firsthand experience, gain an appreciation for 1) the life cycle of basic research, 2) the utility, challenges, and caveats of various approaches to understanding disease, and 3) the elegance and relevance of gene and cell function across organisms. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	Seminar
25962	NEUROSCI	 388LS	NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE LAB	This course will bring students into a basic research setting to directly contribute to our understanding of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of neurodegenerative disease. Classic experimental approaches in the lab (fruit fly genetics, molecular techniques, dissection, immunocytochemistry, microscopy) will be paired with short lectures, literature-based discussions, and data presentations. Students should, through firsthand experience, gain an appreciation for 1) the life cycle of basic research, 2) the utility, challenges, and caveats of various approaches to understanding disease, and 3) the elegance and relevance of gene and cell function across organisms. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
25962	NEUROSCI	 388LS	NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE LAB	This course will bring students into a basic research setting to directly contribute to our understanding of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of neurodegenerative disease. Classic experimental approaches in the lab (fruit fly genetics, molecular techniques, dissection, immunocytochemistry, microscopy) will be paired with short lectures, literature-based discussions, and data presentations. Students should, through firsthand experience, gain an appreciation for 1) the life cycle of basic research, 2) the utility, challenges, and caveats of various approaches to understanding disease, and 3) the elegance and relevance of gene and cell function across organisms. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	(R) Research
25962	NEUROSCI	 388LS	NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE LAB	This course will bring students into a basic research setting to directly contribute to our understanding of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of neurodegenerative disease. Classic experimental approaches in the lab (fruit fly genetics, molecular techniques, dissection, immunocytochemistry, microscopy) will be paired with short lectures, literature-based discussions, and data presentations. Students should, through firsthand experience, gain an appreciation for 1) the life cycle of basic research, 2) the utility, challenges, and caveats of various approaches to understanding disease, and 3) the elegance and relevance of gene and cell function across organisms. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L.	Seminar
25963	POLSCI	 427S	WORLD IN YOUR HAND	Your chance to hold the (simulated) world in your hand. First half of class provides background and tools needed to create computational, simulation models of political, social, and economic phenomena. Second half provides practical experience with class-chosen group computational modeling project(s) that will be submitted for publication. No prior computer programming experience required or expected, and skills gained in class will translate beyond academia.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
25963	POLSCI	 427S	WORLD IN YOUR HAND	Your chance to hold the (simulated) world in your hand. First half of class provides background and tools needed to create computational, simulation models of political, social, and economic phenomena. Second half provides practical experience with class-chosen group computational modeling project(s) that will be submitted for publication. No prior computer programming experience required or expected, and skills gained in class will translate beyond academia.	(R) Research
25963	POLSCI	 427S	WORLD IN YOUR HAND	Your chance to hold the (simulated) world in your hand. First half of class provides background and tools needed to create computational, simulation models of political, social, and economic phenomena. Second half provides practical experience with class-chosen group computational modeling project(s) that will be submitted for publication. No prior computer programming experience required or expected, and skills gained in class will translate beyond academia.	(SS) Social Sciences
25963	POLSCI	 427S	WORLD IN YOUR HAND	Your chance to hold the (simulated) world in your hand. First half of class provides background and tools needed to create computational, simulation models of political, social, and economic phenomena. Second half provides practical experience with class-chosen group computational modeling project(s) that will be submitted for publication. No prior computer programming experience required or expected, and skills gained in class will translate beyond academia.	Seminar
25998	CULANTH	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25998	CULANTH	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(R) Research
25998	CULANTH	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(SS) Social Sciences
25998	CULANTH	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25998	ISS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25998	ISS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(R) Research
25998	ISS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(SS) Social Sciences
25998	ISS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
25998	PJMS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
25998	PJMS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(R) Research
25998	PJMS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(SS) Social Sciences
25998	PJMS	112	THE GOOGLIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	Google has altered the way we see the world and ourselves. Its biases, valuing popularity over accuracy, affect how we value information and navigate news and ideas. This course examines information from different angles within the context of social justice, open access to information, and how the Internet and Google affect our lives. Themes include knowledge as a public good, Internet policies, data and visual literacies, social media, and artificial intelligence. Hands-on work researching how technology affects the access, understanding, and reliability of information in students' lives. Analysis, discussions, and reflection assignments with ongoing application to team-based projects.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
26003	GLHLTH	 190S	GLOBAL HEALTH SPECIAL TOPICS	Content to be determined each semester.	Seminar
26003	GLHLTH	 190S	GLOBAL HEALTH SPECIAL TOPICS	Content to be determined each semester.	Topics Course
26005	MATH	245	INTRO MATH AND PROOFS	Explorations of interesting problems from a variety of branches of math such as geometry, number theory, combinatorics, logic, and analysis. Students will strengthen their problem solving and proof-writing abilities. Recommended prerequisite: Mathematics 216, 218, or 221.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26010	PSY	 319S	PEER HEALTH COACHING	This is a training course for students who are interested in becoming peer mental health coaches for other Duke students. As part of a Bass Connections team, we are developing a peer to peer app that uses anonymous avatars to facilitate communication from students needing help to students trained to help them. This is an intense course in which students will learn how to help an individual manage intense emotions and hopelessness in moments of need. Topics include helping a suicidal individual, helping an individual deal with the aftermath of a sexual assault, and related topics. An initial interview and subsequent permission from the instructor is required. Instructor consent required.	Seminar
26093	EGR	  79S	THRIVE	Students engage in small group discussions and activities to explore knowledge of self, build resilience, create a community, and develop personal well-being. Students apply wellness strategies to everyday life, as well as coping strategies for life's challenges. Additional topics include: personal values, healthy relationships, stress and mental health, self-awareness, personality types, team dynamics, and accessing campus resources. Course is intended to help engineering students thrive at Duke University. Open only to first-year engineering students.	Seminar
26136	WRITING	271	REFLECTIVE WTG & INTERN/WORK	Study of key concepts related to reflective writing through reading, discussion, and structured writing. Students will compose reflective writing about their internship/work experiences. May be repeated.	(W) Writing
26260	SCISOC	290	TOPICS IN SCIENCE & SOCIETY	Topics in science and society. Topics may vary.	Topics Course
26267	STA	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed readings or work in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper, project, or written report covering a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
26299	AMES	 477S	THE GLOBAL ARAB WORLD	This seminar will focus on contemporary works, anthropological and historical, that unearth veins of research on the Arab world whose horizons transcend the earlier theoretical metonyms, as well as the frontiers of nation-states and the boundaries of religious traditions. We will read works which explore lives, ideas, practices, and institutions in the Arab world through situating them within global processes. In thinking about the Arab world in a transnational perspective we seek to look into how this area of the world both shaped other societies, and was shaped by, this global circulation of humans, commodities, technologies, ideologies, news and thought.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26299	AMES	 477S	THE GLOBAL ARAB WORLD	This seminar will focus on contemporary works, anthropological and historical, that unearth veins of research on the Arab world whose horizons transcend the earlier theoretical metonyms, as well as the frontiers of nation-states and the boundaries of religious traditions. We will read works which explore lives, ideas, practices, and institutions in the Arab world through situating them within global processes. In thinking about the Arab world in a transnational perspective we seek to look into how this area of the world both shaped other societies, and was shaped by, this global circulation of humans, commodities, technologies, ideologies, news and thought.	(CZ) Civilizations
26299	AMES	 477S	THE GLOBAL ARAB WORLD	This seminar will focus on contemporary works, anthropological and historical, that unearth veins of research on the Arab world whose horizons transcend the earlier theoretical metonyms, as well as the frontiers of nation-states and the boundaries of religious traditions. We will read works which explore lives, ideas, practices, and institutions in the Arab world through situating them within global processes. In thinking about the Arab world in a transnational perspective we seek to look into how this area of the world both shaped other societies, and was shaped by, this global circulation of humans, commodities, technologies, ideologies, news and thought.	(SS) Social Sciences
26299	AMES	 477S	THE GLOBAL ARAB WORLD	This seminar will focus on contemporary works, anthropological and historical, that unearth veins of research on the Arab world whose horizons transcend the earlier theoretical metonyms, as well as the frontiers of nation-states and the boundaries of religious traditions. We will read works which explore lives, ideas, practices, and institutions in the Arab world through situating them within global processes. In thinking about the Arab world in a transnational perspective we seek to look into how this area of the world both shaped other societies, and was shaped by, this global circulation of humans, commodities, technologies, ideologies, news and thought.	Seminar
26318	DECSCI	201	DISCOVERING GAME THEORY	Strategy is all around you: In sports, the economy, law, politics, and your own social interactions. In this course, you will explore one of the foundational tools that social scientists use to analyze the complexity of strategic interactions: Game Theory. To do so, the course employs a highly interactive learning environment, in which you and your peers engage in strategic interactions that illustrate fundamental social dilemmas. In taking this course, you will gain a new analytical perspective into the complexity of social phenomena, and develop a solid foundation for additional course work in social science.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26318	DECSCI	201	DISCOVERING GAME THEORY	Strategy is all around you: In sports, the economy, law, politics, and your own social interactions. In this course, you will explore one of the foundational tools that social scientists use to analyze the complexity of strategic interactions: Game Theory. To do so, the course employs a highly interactive learning environment, in which you and your peers engage in strategic interactions that illustrate fundamental social dilemmas. In taking this course, you will gain a new analytical perspective into the complexity of social phenomena, and develop a solid foundation for additional course work in social science.	(SS) Social Sciences
26318	ECON	362	DISCOVERING GAME THEORY	Strategy is all around you: In sports, the economy, law, politics, and your own social interactions. In this course, you will explore one of the foundational tools that social scientists use to analyze the complexity of strategic interactions: Game Theory. To do so, the course employs a highly interactive learning environment, in which you and your peers engage in strategic interactions that illustrate fundamental social dilemmas. In taking this course, you will gain a new analytical perspective into the complexity of social phenomena, and develop a solid foundation for additional course work in social science.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26318	ECON	362	DISCOVERING GAME THEORY	Strategy is all around you: In sports, the economy, law, politics, and your own social interactions. In this course, you will explore one of the foundational tools that social scientists use to analyze the complexity of strategic interactions: Game Theory. To do so, the course employs a highly interactive learning environment, in which you and your peers engage in strategic interactions that illustrate fundamental social dilemmas. In taking this course, you will gain a new analytical perspective into the complexity of social phenomena, and develop a solid foundation for additional course work in social science.	(SS) Social Sciences
26318	POLSCI	217	DISCOVERING GAME THEORY	Strategy is all around you: In sports, the economy, law, politics, and your own social interactions. In this course, you will explore one of the foundational tools that social scientists use to analyze the complexity of strategic interactions: Game Theory. To do so, the course employs a highly interactive learning environment, in which you and your peers engage in strategic interactions that illustrate fundamental social dilemmas. In taking this course, you will gain a new analytical perspective into the complexity of social phenomena, and develop a solid foundation for additional course work in social science.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26318	POLSCI	217	DISCOVERING GAME THEORY	Strategy is all around you: In sports, the economy, law, politics, and your own social interactions. In this course, you will explore one of the foundational tools that social scientists use to analyze the complexity of strategic interactions: Game Theory. To do so, the course employs a highly interactive learning environment, in which you and your peers engage in strategic interactions that illustrate fundamental social dilemmas. In taking this course, you will gain a new analytical perspective into the complexity of social phenomena, and develop a solid foundation for additional course work in social science.	(SS) Social Sciences
26320	PSY	227	LEADERSHIP & COLLABORATION	Leadership is essential to the success of groups, organizations, and societies. To be effective, leaders must possess a clear understanding of human behavior and social processes. This course is an introduction to the study of leadership from the perspective of the social sciences. We will draw on a range of social science research to address key questions about the process and practice of collaborative leadership and followership. The goal of the course is to not only expose students to the empirical study of leadership and followership but also stimulate them to think critically about human behavior.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26320	PSY	227	LEADERSHIP & COLLABORATION	Leadership is essential to the success of groups, organizations, and societies. To be effective, leaders must possess a clear understanding of human behavior and social processes. This course is an introduction to the study of leadership from the perspective of the social sciences. We will draw on a range of social science research to address key questions about the process and practice of collaborative leadership and followership. The goal of the course is to not only expose students to the empirical study of leadership and followership but also stimulate them to think critically about human behavior.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
26320	PSY	227	LEADERSHIP & COLLABORATION	Leadership is essential to the success of groups, organizations, and societies. To be effective, leaders must possess a clear understanding of human behavior and social processes. This course is an introduction to the study of leadership from the perspective of the social sciences. We will draw on a range of social science research to address key questions about the process and practice of collaborative leadership and followership. The goal of the course is to not only expose students to the empirical study of leadership and followership but also stimulate them to think critically about human behavior.	(SS) Social Sciences
26320	SOCIOL	227	LEADERSHIP & COLLABORATION	Leadership is essential to the success of groups, organizations, and societies. To be effective, leaders must possess a clear understanding of human behavior and social processes. This course is an introduction to the study of leadership from the perspective of the social sciences. We will draw on a range of social science research to address key questions about the process and practice of collaborative leadership and followership. The goal of the course is to not only expose students to the empirical study of leadership and followership but also stimulate them to think critically about human behavior.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26320	SOCIOL	227	LEADERSHIP & COLLABORATION	Leadership is essential to the success of groups, organizations, and societies. To be effective, leaders must possess a clear understanding of human behavior and social processes. This course is an introduction to the study of leadership from the perspective of the social sciences. We will draw on a range of social science research to address key questions about the process and practice of collaborative leadership and followership. The goal of the course is to not only expose students to the empirical study of leadership and followership but also stimulate them to think critically about human behavior.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
26320	SOCIOL	227	LEADERSHIP & COLLABORATION	Leadership is essential to the success of groups, organizations, and societies. To be effective, leaders must possess a clear understanding of human behavior and social processes. This course is an introduction to the study of leadership from the perspective of the social sciences. We will draw on a range of social science research to address key questions about the process and practice of collaborative leadership and followership. The goal of the course is to not only expose students to the empirical study of leadership and followership but also stimulate them to think critically about human behavior.	(SS) Social Sciences
26323	MATH	260	PYTHON PROGRAMMING IN MATH	Introductory programming course in Python providing a foundational background for programming in a mathematical setting. Students will learn the basics of object orientated programming: memory storage and variable scoping, recursion, objects and classes, and basic data structures. A variety of numerical methods will be introduced, with a focus on their practical implementation, through a series of practice modules covering subjects that may include: linear algebra, machine learning, operations research, and genetics. Recommended prerequisite: linear algebra (Mathematics 216, 218, or 221). No programming background is required. Not open to students who have taken Computer Science 201.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26324	ECON	 104D	FDN OF ECONOMETRICS & DATA SCI	Rigorous introduction to statistical concepts that underpin econometrics. Course emphasizes conceptual understanding, uses mathematics to illustrate ideas, and applies ideas to examples from economics broadly construed. Students analyze data to reinforce understanding. Topics include experimental and non-experimental research designs; modern approaches to summarizing data; random variables, probability, expectations, density and distribution functions; sampling; estimation; inference and hypothesis testing; introduction to linear regression. First course in two-semester econometrics sequence. Prerequisite: Mathematics 21, 106L,111L, 112L, 121, 122, 122L, 202, 202D, 212, or 222.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26348	HISTORY	 425S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26348	HISTORY	 425S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
26348	HISTORY	 425S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
26348	HISTORY	 425S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(FL) Foreign Language
26348	HISTORY	 425S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	Seminar
26348	ICS	 435S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26348	ICS	 435S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
26348	ICS	 435S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
26348	ICS	 435S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(FL) Foreign Language
26348	ICS	 435S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	Seminar
26348	SPANISH	 437S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26348	SPANISH	 437S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
26348	SPANISH	 437S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
26348	SPANISH	 437S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	(FL) Foreign Language
26348	SPANISH	 437S	MIGRATION/EXILE/SECOND SLAVERY	This seminar explores the collective identities of Afro-descendant slaves in the Americas as well as migrant and exiled Spaniards away from the homeland. We will consider three main themes: 1) chattel or second slavery in Cuba, and, secondarily, in the U.S. and/or Brazil; 2) Ibero-Atlantic diasporas since the mid-nineteenth century, including so-called white slavery; and 3) the career of Mara Zambrano, an expatriate intellectual who turned her banishment from Spain in 1939 into the enabling condition of her radical revision of Western philosophy and the ethics of exile. Prerequisite: 300-level or above Spanish course that meets foreign language (FL) requirement.	Seminar
26383	PHIL	 242S	PROBLEMS IN PHIL OF SCIENCE	The principal philosophical problems of scientific practice. Explanation, confirmation, instrumentalist and realist conceptions of scientific theory. Laws and indeterminism in modern science.	(CZ) Civilizations
26383	PHIL	 242S	PROBLEMS IN PHIL OF SCIENCE	The principal philosophical problems of scientific practice. Explanation, confirmation, instrumentalist and realist conceptions of scientific theory. Laws and indeterminism in modern science.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
26383	PHIL	 242S	PROBLEMS IN PHIL OF SCIENCE	The principal philosophical problems of scientific practice. Explanation, confirmation, instrumentalist and realist conceptions of scientific theory. Laws and indeterminism in modern science.	Seminar
26499	MUSIC	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic or artistic product. Consent of instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required. May be repeated for credit.	Independent Study
26521	MUSIC	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual directed study in a field of special interest on previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic or artistic product. Consent of instructor and the director of undergraduate studies required. May be repeated for credit.	Independent Study
26607	CMAC	 240S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26607	CMAC	 240S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(R) Research
26607	CMAC	 240S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	Seminar
26607	ISS	 240S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26607	ISS	 240S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(R) Research
26607	ISS	 240S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	Seminar
26607	VMS	 288S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26607	VMS	 288S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	(R) Research
26607	VMS	 288S	WEB-BASED MULTIMEDIA COMMUNIC	Multimedia information systems, including presentation media, hypermedia, graphics, animation, sound, video, and integrated authoring techniques; underlying technologies that make them possible. Practice in the design innovation, programming, and assessment of web-based digital multimedia information systems. Intended for students in non-technical disciplines. Engineering or Computer Science students should take Engineering 206 or Computer Science 408.	Seminar
26683	PSY	 204L	PSYCH METHODS & STATISTICS 1	First part of two-semester series (204L/205L). Design of research studies and use of statistical methods to become better consumers, creators, and communicators of psychological research. First semester (204L) focused on research design and measurement, ethical issues, statistical tests for observational studies (e.g., t-tests, correlation, non-parametric tests), statistical software, and communicating scientific findings. Students will develop the methodological and statistical knowledge and skills to conduct their own psychological research. Includes lab section. Required for psychology major. Recommended prerequisite: two Psychology or Neuroscience courses (one may be taken concurrently with Psychology 204L).	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26683	PSY	 204L	PSYCH METHODS & STATISTICS 1	First part of two-semester series (204L/205L). Design of research studies and use of statistical methods to become better consumers, creators, and communicators of psychological research. First semester (204L) focused on research design and measurement, ethical issues, statistical tests for observational studies (e.g., t-tests, correlation, non-parametric tests), statistical software, and communicating scientific findings. Students will develop the methodological and statistical knowledge and skills to conduct their own psychological research. Includes lab section. Required for psychology major. Recommended prerequisite: two Psychology or Neuroscience courses (one may be taken concurrently with Psychology 204L).	(R) Research
26683	PSY	 204L	PSYCH METHODS & STATISTICS 1	First part of two-semester series (204L/205L). Design of research studies and use of statistical methods to become better consumers, creators, and communicators of psychological research. First semester (204L) focused on research design and measurement, ethical issues, statistical tests for observational studies (e.g., t-tests, correlation, non-parametric tests), statistical software, and communicating scientific findings. Students will develop the methodological and statistical knowledge and skills to conduct their own psychological research. Includes lab section. Required for psychology major. Recommended prerequisite: two Psychology or Neuroscience courses (one may be taken concurrently with Psychology 204L).	(SS) Social Sciences
26690	ITALIAN	 328S	ITALIAN STUDIES SEMINAR	An introduction to Italian culture through the cross-cultural analysis of its history, literature, cinema and arts. Through readings and discussions of primary and secondary texts, students will encounter and examine a range of Italian cultural topics. The course may be organized around a theme, like revolution, postcolonialism, or feminism in the Renaissance. Students will consider the topic from an Italian perspective, developing a greater understanding of both the theme and Italian society, culture, literature, and film. Taught in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26690	ITALIAN	 328S	ITALIAN STUDIES SEMINAR	An introduction to Italian culture through the cross-cultural analysis of its history, literature, cinema and arts. Through readings and discussions of primary and secondary texts, students will encounter and examine a range of Italian cultural topics. The course may be organized around a theme, like revolution, postcolonialism, or feminism in the Renaissance. Students will consider the topic from an Italian perspective, developing a greater understanding of both the theme and Italian society, culture, literature, and film. Taught in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26690	ITALIAN	 328S	ITALIAN STUDIES SEMINAR	An introduction to Italian culture through the cross-cultural analysis of its history, literature, cinema and arts. Through readings and discussions of primary and secondary texts, students will encounter and examine a range of Italian cultural topics. The course may be organized around a theme, like revolution, postcolonialism, or feminism in the Renaissance. Students will consider the topic from an Italian perspective, developing a greater understanding of both the theme and Italian society, culture, literature, and film. Taught in English.	Seminar
26713	ENGLISH	 101S	THE ART OF READING	An introduction to the skills of critical reading through the close examination of literary works, or other media such as film.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26713	ENGLISH	 101S	THE ART OF READING	An introduction to the skills of critical reading through the close examination of literary works, or other media such as film.	(W) Writing
26713	ENGLISH	 101S	THE ART OF READING	An introduction to the skills of critical reading through the close examination of literary works, or other media such as film.	Seminar
26714	PSY	 205L	PSYCH METHODS & STATISTICS 2	Second part of two-semester series (204L/205L). Design of research studies and use of statistical methods to become better consumers, creators, and communicators of psychological research. Second semester (205L) focused on experimental research design, ethical issues, statistical tests for experimental studies (e.g., regression, ANOVA, non-parametric tests), statistical software, and communicating scientific findings. By the end of this course series, students will have the methodological and statistical knowledge and skills to conduct their own psychological research. Includes lab section. Required for psychology major. Prerequisite: Psychology 204L (cannot be taken concurrently with Psychology 205L).	(R) Research
26714	PSY	 205L	PSYCH METHODS & STATISTICS 2	Second part of two-semester series (204L/205L). Design of research studies and use of statistical methods to become better consumers, creators, and communicators of psychological research. Second semester (205L) focused on experimental research design, ethical issues, statistical tests for experimental studies (e.g., regression, ANOVA, non-parametric tests), statistical software, and communicating scientific findings. By the end of this course series, students will have the methodological and statistical knowledge and skills to conduct their own psychological research. Includes lab section. Required for psychology major. Prerequisite: Psychology 204L (cannot be taken concurrently with Psychology 205L).	(SS) Social Sciences
26714	PSY	 205L	PSYCH METHODS & STATISTICS 2	Second part of two-semester series (204L/205L). Design of research studies and use of statistical methods to become better consumers, creators, and communicators of psychological research. Second semester (205L) focused on experimental research design, ethical issues, statistical tests for experimental studies (e.g., regression, ANOVA, non-parametric tests), statistical software, and communicating scientific findings. By the end of this course series, students will have the methodological and statistical knowledge and skills to conduct their own psychological research. Includes lab section. Required for psychology major. Prerequisite: Psychology 204L (cannot be taken concurrently with Psychology 205L).	(W) Writing
26729	ECON	 204D	ECONOMETRICS AND DATA SCIENCE	This course develops critical-thinking skills necessary to analyze and interpret real world data using modern data science and econometric methods. Students learn to be consumers and producers of empirical research in the sciences. Develop sophisticated understanding of both theoretical underpinnings and challenges in implementation of empirical methods to effectively evaluate quality of evidence and validity of causal inferences. Applications are primarily drawn from economic studies of individuals, firms and markets. Prerequisite: (ECON 21 and 22, ECON 23 and 24, ECON 101, ECON 101D, or ECON 201D) and (ECON 104D or STA 230/MATH 230, STA 231/MATH 340, or STA 432/MATH 343).	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26729	ECON	 204D	ECONOMETRICS AND DATA SCIENCE	This course develops critical-thinking skills necessary to analyze and interpret real world data using modern data science and econometric methods. Students learn to be consumers and producers of empirical research in the sciences. Develop sophisticated understanding of both theoretical underpinnings and challenges in implementation of empirical methods to effectively evaluate quality of evidence and validity of causal inferences. Applications are primarily drawn from economic studies of individuals, firms and markets. Prerequisite: (ECON 21 and 22, ECON 23 and 24, ECON 101, ECON 101D, or ECON 201D) and (ECON 104D or STA 230/MATH 230, STA 231/MATH 340, or STA 432/MATH 343).	(R) Research
26729	ECON	 204D	ECONOMETRICS AND DATA SCIENCE	This course develops critical-thinking skills necessary to analyze and interpret real world data using modern data science and econometric methods. Students learn to be consumers and producers of empirical research in the sciences. Develop sophisticated understanding of both theoretical underpinnings and challenges in implementation of empirical methods to effectively evaluate quality of evidence and validity of causal inferences. Applications are primarily drawn from economic studies of individuals, firms and markets. Prerequisite: (ECON 21 and 22, ECON 23 and 24, ECON 101, ECON 101D, or ECON 201D) and (ECON 104D or STA 230/MATH 230, STA 231/MATH 340, or STA 432/MATH 343).	(SS) Social Sciences
26732	ARTHIST	 103D	HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE INTRO	The survey provides a panorama of architectural production from Antiquity to the present with a global perspective. The objective is to insure knowledge of architectural production, related historiography, contemporary debate, and scholarship. The reading materials are organized chronologically to facilitate the students' approach to the field of architectural history. A thematic approach will inform the lectures, where notions of practice, techniques, spread of knowledge and models among others, are considered in relation to specific case studies.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26732	ARTHIST	 103D	HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE INTRO	The survey provides a panorama of architectural production from Antiquity to the present with a global perspective. The objective is to insure knowledge of architectural production, related historiography, contemporary debate, and scholarship. The reading materials are organized chronologically to facilitate the students' approach to the field of architectural history. A thematic approach will inform the lectures, where notions of practice, techniques, spread of knowledge and models among others, are considered in relation to specific case studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
26735	MATH	343	STAT. LEARNING AND INFERENCE	Estimators and properties (efficiency, consistency, sufficiency); loss functions. Fisher information, asymptotic properties and distributions of estimators. Exponential families. Point and interval estimation, delta method. Neyman-Pearson lemma; likelihood ratio tests; multiple testing; design and the analysis of variance (ANOVA). High-dimensional data; statistical regularization and sparsity; penalty and prior formulations; model selection. Resampling methods; principal component analysis, mixture models. Prerequisite: (Statistical Science 240L, 230, or 231) and (Mathematics 202, 212, 219, or 222). Not open to students with credit for STA 250. Recommended prerequisite: Statistical Science 210, 360, and (Mathematics 221, 218, or 216).	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26735	STA	432	STAT. LEARNING AND INFERENCE	Estimators and properties (efficiency, consistency, sufficiency); loss functions. Fisher information, asymptotic properties and distributions of estimators. Exponential families. Point and interval estimation, delta method. Neyman-Pearson lemma; likelihood ratio tests; multiple testing; design and the analysis of variance (ANOVA). High-dimensional data; statistical regularization and sparsity; penalty and prior formulations; model selection. Resampling methods; principal component analysis, mixture models. Prerequisite: (Statistical Science 240L, 230, or 231) and (Mathematics 202, 212, 219, or 222). Not open to students with credit for STA 250. Recommended prerequisite: Statistical Science 210, 360, and (Mathematics 221, 218, or 216).	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26737	ARTSVIS	 368S	THE VIEW CAMERA	Advanced, production-based photography course introduces students to the 4 x 5 large format view camera and its role in the documentary tradition. Learn to operate a view camera and attendant processes and materials to develop black and white sheet film and make silver gelatin contact prints from 4 x 5 negatives. Begins with focus on black and white negatives and contact prints. After demonstration of proficiency, students may optionally work in color film. Students produce a final portfolio of prints from their work throughout the semester. Class meetings consist of lectures, demonstrations, darkroom work, and critique of both process and final images.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26737	ARTSVIS	 368S	THE VIEW CAMERA	Advanced, production-based photography course introduces students to the 4 x 5 large format view camera and its role in the documentary tradition. Learn to operate a view camera and attendant processes and materials to develop black and white sheet film and make silver gelatin contact prints from 4 x 5 negatives. Begins with focus on black and white negatives and contact prints. After demonstration of proficiency, students may optionally work in color film. Students produce a final portfolio of prints from their work throughout the semester. Class meetings consist of lectures, demonstrations, darkroom work, and critique of both process and final images.	Seminar
26737	DOCST	 368S	THE VIEW CAMERA	Advanced, production-based photography course introduces students to the 4 x 5 large format view camera and its role in the documentary tradition. Learn to operate a view camera and attendant processes and materials to develop black and white sheet film and make silver gelatin contact prints from 4 x 5 negatives. Begins with focus on black and white negatives and contact prints. After demonstration of proficiency, students may optionally work in color film. Students produce a final portfolio of prints from their work throughout the semester. Class meetings consist of lectures, demonstrations, darkroom work, and critique of both process and final images.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26737	DOCST	 368S	THE VIEW CAMERA	Advanced, production-based photography course introduces students to the 4 x 5 large format view camera and its role in the documentary tradition. Learn to operate a view camera and attendant processes and materials to develop black and white sheet film and make silver gelatin contact prints from 4 x 5 negatives. Begins with focus on black and white negatives and contact prints. After demonstration of proficiency, students may optionally work in color film. Students produce a final portfolio of prints from their work throughout the semester. Class meetings consist of lectures, demonstrations, darkroom work, and critique of both process and final images.	Seminar
26737	VMS	 373S	THE VIEW CAMERA	Advanced, production-based photography course introduces students to the 4 x 5 large format view camera and its role in the documentary tradition. Learn to operate a view camera and attendant processes and materials to develop black and white sheet film and make silver gelatin contact prints from 4 x 5 negatives. Begins with focus on black and white negatives and contact prints. After demonstration of proficiency, students may optionally work in color film. Students produce a final portfolio of prints from their work throughout the semester. Class meetings consist of lectures, demonstrations, darkroom work, and critique of both process and final images.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26737	VMS	 373S	THE VIEW CAMERA	Advanced, production-based photography course introduces students to the 4 x 5 large format view camera and its role in the documentary tradition. Learn to operate a view camera and attendant processes and materials to develop black and white sheet film and make silver gelatin contact prints from 4 x 5 negatives. Begins with focus on black and white negatives and contact prints. After demonstration of proficiency, students may optionally work in color film. Students produce a final portfolio of prints from their work throughout the semester. Class meetings consist of lectures, demonstrations, darkroom work, and critique of both process and final images.	Seminar
26740	AAAS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26740	AAAS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
26740	AAAS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(W) Writing
26740	AAAS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	Seminar
26740	CULANTH	 418S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26740	CULANTH	 418S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
26740	CULANTH	 418S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(W) Writing
26740	CULANTH	 418S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	Seminar
26740	ICS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26740	ICS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(CZ) Civilizations
26740	ICS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	(W) Writing
26740	ICS	 419S	RACE & VALUE	This course interrogates the ways scholars in the social sciences and humanities have conceptualized and theorized value, and the curious absence of race/racism from this discourse. Drawing from scholarship in the fields of history, anthropology, African diaspora studies, and (ethno)musicology, students will develop a better understanding of the interrelationship between race and value and the distinct ways that race has been one of the most pervasive 'value regimes' in the making of the modern world. Topics include the transatlantic slave trade and plantation societies in the Americas; intersections of race with science and technology; and black radical politics and expressive culture.	Seminar
26748	PHYSICS	 163D	INTRODUCTORY MECHANICS AND E&M	One semester calculus-based course covering the fundamental principles of mechanics, electricity, magnetism, and optics. This team-based course covers topics of Physics 161D and 162D that are not included in the high school AP Physics C curriculum, including fluids, damped and driven oscillations, waves, sound, AC circuits, Maxwell's equations, light, geometric optics, and physical (wave) optics. Prerequisite: Physics 25, Physics 26, Mathematics 21, and Mathematics 122/122L (Mathematics 122/122L can be taken concurrently). Not open to students who have taken Physics 141L, 142L, 151L, 152L, 161D, or 162D.	(NS) Natural Sciences
26748	PHYSICS	 163D	INTRODUCTORY MECHANICS AND E&M	One semester calculus-based course covering the fundamental principles of mechanics, electricity, magnetism, and optics. This team-based course covers topics of Physics 161D and 162D that are not included in the high school AP Physics C curriculum, including fluids, damped and driven oscillations, waves, sound, AC circuits, Maxwell's equations, light, geometric optics, and physical (wave) optics. Prerequisite: Physics 25, Physics 26, Mathematics 21, and Mathematics 122/122L (Mathematics 122/122L can be taken concurrently). Not open to students who have taken Physics 141L, 142L, 151L, 152L, 161D, or 162D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26749	HISTORY	124	HISTORY OF THE PRESENT	Examines the history of the past forty years, focusing on the United States in a global context. Themes might include: globalization, inequality, the rise of the alt-right, climate change, the internet, and the emergence of finance and consulting. Prepares students to think historically about their own world, and gives them the opportunity to use historical methods to think about the forces shaping their lives, their families, and their potential careers. Draws on a wide variety of sources and genres: alongside more traditional academic readings, students might be exposed to digital storytelling, journalism, television, and video games.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26749	HISTORY	124	HISTORY OF THE PRESENT	Examines the history of the past forty years, focusing on the United States in a global context. Themes might include: globalization, inequality, the rise of the alt-right, climate change, the internet, and the emergence of finance and consulting. Prepares students to think historically about their own world, and gives them the opportunity to use historical methods to think about the forces shaping their lives, their families, and their potential careers. Draws on a wide variety of sources and genres: alongside more traditional academic readings, students might be exposed to digital storytelling, journalism, television, and video games.	(CZ) Civilizations
26749	HISTORY	124	HISTORY OF THE PRESENT	Examines the history of the past forty years, focusing on the United States in a global context. Themes might include: globalization, inequality, the rise of the alt-right, climate change, the internet, and the emergence of finance and consulting. Prepares students to think historically about their own world, and gives them the opportunity to use historical methods to think about the forces shaping their lives, their families, and their potential careers. Draws on a wide variety of sources and genres: alongside more traditional academic readings, students might be exposed to digital storytelling, journalism, television, and video games.	(R) Research
26749	PUBPOL	123	HISTORY OF THE PRESENT	Examines the history of the past forty years, focusing on the United States in a global context. Themes might include: globalization, inequality, the rise of the alt-right, climate change, the internet, and the emergence of finance and consulting. Prepares students to think historically about their own world, and gives them the opportunity to use historical methods to think about the forces shaping their lives, their families, and their potential careers. Draws on a wide variety of sources and genres: alongside more traditional academic readings, students might be exposed to digital storytelling, journalism, television, and video games.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26749	PUBPOL	123	HISTORY OF THE PRESENT	Examines the history of the past forty years, focusing on the United States in a global context. Themes might include: globalization, inequality, the rise of the alt-right, climate change, the internet, and the emergence of finance and consulting. Prepares students to think historically about their own world, and gives them the opportunity to use historical methods to think about the forces shaping their lives, their families, and their potential careers. Draws on a wide variety of sources and genres: alongside more traditional academic readings, students might be exposed to digital storytelling, journalism, television, and video games.	(CZ) Civilizations
26749	PUBPOL	123	HISTORY OF THE PRESENT	Examines the history of the past forty years, focusing on the United States in a global context. Themes might include: globalization, inequality, the rise of the alt-right, climate change, the internet, and the emergence of finance and consulting. Prepares students to think historically about their own world, and gives them the opportunity to use historical methods to think about the forces shaping their lives, their families, and their potential careers. Draws on a wide variety of sources and genres: alongside more traditional academic readings, students might be exposed to digital storytelling, journalism, television, and video games.	(R) Research
26754	ENVIRON	 269T-2	VOICES IN THE ENVIRONM: FRENCH	In this course, students will explore how language and culture impact environmental policy and practice. Through authentic text, video, and case studies in French, students will analyze environmental issues in the Francophone World to develop their understanding of core issues in the field. Tutorials meet for 75 minutes/week. Taught in French.	Tutorial
26754	FRENCH	 272T	VOICES IN THE ENVIRONM: FRENCH	In this course, students will explore how language and culture impact environmental policy and practice. Through authentic text, video, and case studies in French, students will analyze environmental issues in the Francophone World to develop their understanding of core issues in the field. Tutorials meet for 75 minutes/week. Taught in French.	Tutorial
26875	MATH	 218D-2	MATRICES AND VECTORS	Solving systems of linear equations, matrix factorizations and fundamental vector subspaces, orthogonality, least squares problems, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, the singular value decomposition and principal component analysis, applications to engineering problems. Intended primarily for students in engineering. Prospective math majors should take Mathematics 221 instead. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 216 or 221. Recommended prerequisite: Mathematics 21, 121, 106L, or 111L.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26880	HISTORY	370	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26880	HISTORY	370	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26880	HISTORY	370	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(CZ) Civilizations
26880	HISTORY	370	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
26880	HISTORY	370	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(R) Research
26880	MEDREN	270	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
26880	MEDREN	270	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26880	MEDREN	270	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(CZ) Civilizations
26880	MEDREN	270	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
26880	MEDREN	270	AZTECS AND MAYANS	Within modern imaginaries, Aztecs and Mayans become seen as those who engaged in brutal sacrifice and cannibalism atop their great temples. In order to question this pornographic assumption, this course examines the sources--art available at the Nasher Museum and many visual sources and written texts from the times of the Classic Maya civilization through today. We will collectively think about the ways in which these peoples have lived their lives and responded to the challenges of colonialism and globalization. Students should expect a hands on course as they will examine everything from ancient pottery to weapons, paintings, photographs, films, and written documents.	(R) Research
26889	MMS	197	ORG LEADERSHIP & MANAGEMENT	Study of individual and group behaviors within organized settings and managerial strategies that enhance organizational effectiveness. Topics include leadership, culture and diversity, power and politics, communication, decision making, motivation and reward systems, conflict management, justice and ethics as well as organization structure and design. Special attention to critical assessment of new technological options in organizational settings with an aim to produce informed, ethical consumers and leaders.	(SS) Social Sciences
26890	COMPSCI	351	INTRO TO COMPUTER SECURITY	Principles of securing the creation, storage, and transmission of data and ensuring its integrity, confidentiality, and availability. Topics include access control and authentication in distributed systems; cryptography and cryptographic protocols (mainly key exchange protocols); user authentication; software vulnerabilities and software engineering to reduce vulnerabilities; firewalls and related technologies; technologies to support online privacy; and selected advanced topics. Prerequisite: Computer Science 210D or 250D and Computer Science 230.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26916	GLHLTH	 298L	GLOBAL HEALTH DATA SCIENCE	Rigorous introduction to health data science using current applications in biomedical research, epidemiology, and health policy. Use modern statistical software to conduct reproducible data exploration, visualization, and analysis. Interpret and translate results for interdisciplinary researchers. Critically evaluate data-based claims, decisions, and policies. Includes exploratory data analysis, visualization, basics of probability and inference, predictive modeling and classification. This course focuses on the R computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26916	GLHLTH	 298L	GLOBAL HEALTH DATA SCIENCE	Rigorous introduction to health data science using current applications in biomedical research, epidemiology, and health policy. Use modern statistical software to conduct reproducible data exploration, visualization, and analysis. Interpret and translate results for interdisciplinary researchers. Critically evaluate data-based claims, decisions, and policies. Includes exploratory data analysis, visualization, basics of probability and inference, predictive modeling and classification. This course focuses on the R computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(R) Research
26916	GLHLTH	 298L	GLOBAL HEALTH DATA SCIENCE	Rigorous introduction to health data science using current applications in biomedical research, epidemiology, and health policy. Use modern statistical software to conduct reproducible data exploration, visualization, and analysis. Interpret and translate results for interdisciplinary researchers. Critically evaluate data-based claims, decisions, and policies. Includes exploratory data analysis, visualization, basics of probability and inference, predictive modeling and classification. This course focuses on the R computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
26916	STA	 198L	GLOBAL HEALTH DATA SCIENCE	Rigorous introduction to health data science using current applications in biomedical research, epidemiology, and health policy. Use modern statistical software to conduct reproducible data exploration, visualization, and analysis. Interpret and translate results for interdisciplinary researchers. Critically evaluate data-based claims, decisions, and policies. Includes exploratory data analysis, visualization, basics of probability and inference, predictive modeling and classification. This course focuses on the R computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
26916	STA	 198L	GLOBAL HEALTH DATA SCIENCE	Rigorous introduction to health data science using current applications in biomedical research, epidemiology, and health policy. Use modern statistical software to conduct reproducible data exploration, visualization, and analysis. Interpret and translate results for interdisciplinary researchers. Critically evaluate data-based claims, decisions, and policies. Includes exploratory data analysis, visualization, basics of probability and inference, predictive modeling and classification. This course focuses on the R computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(R) Research
26916	STA	 198L	GLOBAL HEALTH DATA SCIENCE	Rigorous introduction to health data science using current applications in biomedical research, epidemiology, and health policy. Use modern statistical software to conduct reproducible data exploration, visualization, and analysis. Interpret and translate results for interdisciplinary researchers. Critically evaluate data-based claims, decisions, and policies. Includes exploratory data analysis, visualization, basics of probability and inference, predictive modeling and classification. This course focuses on the R computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary. Not open to students who have taken a 100-level Statistical Science course, Statistical Science 210, or a Statistical Science course numbered 300 or above.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
26973	GLHLTH	 395T	BASS CONNECTIONS GLOBAL HEALTH	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty leaders to identify, refine, explore and develop solutions to pressing global health issues. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows and experts from business, government and the nonprofit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
26973	GLHLTH	 395T	BASS CONNECTIONS GLOBAL HEALTH	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty leaders to identify, refine, explore and develop solutions to pressing global health issues. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows and experts from business, government and the nonprofit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, lectures, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
26978	POLSCI	290	SPECIAL TOPICS IN POLSCI	Special topics in political science.	Topics Course
27044	BRAINSOC	 395T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary by semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics and law. Teams may include external partners. Work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing faculty-led research. Teams participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning or research experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27044	BRAINSOC	 395T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary by semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics and law. Teams may include external partners. Work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing faculty-led research. Teams participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning or research experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
27044	BRAINSOC	 395T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary by semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics and law. Teams may include external partners. Work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing faculty-led research. Teams participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning or research experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
27046	EHD	 395T	BASS CONNX EDUC & HUMAN DEV	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to explore factors that contribute to positive outcomes across the human lifespan, including influences on education, health and human flourishing. Teams may also include external partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other relevant learning experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
27046	EHD	 395T	BASS CONNX EDUC & HUMAN DEV	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to explore factors that contribute to positive outcomes across the human lifespan, including influences on education, health and human flourishing. Teams may also include external partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other relevant learning experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
27048	ENERGY	 395T	BASS CONNECTIONS ENERGY & ENV	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to address critical energy and environmental challenges. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows and experts from business, government and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27048	ENERGY	 395T	BASS CONNECTIONS ENERGY & ENV	Tutorial course for Bass Connections yearlong project team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to address critical energy and environmental challenges. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows and experts from business, government and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
27080	BIOLOGY	268	MECHANISMS OF ANIMAL BEHAVIOR	Survey of causal factors underlying the expression of animal behavior, organized around common problems organisms need to solve, such as finding food, avoiding predation, determining when and with whom to reproduce, communicating with other organisms, and extracting information from the environment. These factors are examined from an integrative perspective that includes neurobiology, endocrinology, sensory physiology, genetics, developmental biology, and functional morphology. Prerequisite: Biology 202L, 202LA, or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27080	NEUROSCI	268	MECHANISMS OF ANIMAL BEHAVIOR	Survey of causal factors underlying the expression of animal behavior, organized around common problems organisms need to solve, such as finding food, avoiding predation, determining when and with whom to reproduce, communicating with other organisms, and extracting information from the environment. These factors are examined from an integrative perspective that includes neurobiology, endocrinology, sensory physiology, genetics, developmental biology, and functional morphology. Prerequisite: Biology 202L, 202LA, or 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27128	ENVIRON	 148FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27128	ENVIRON	 148FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(R) Research
27128	ENVIRON	 148FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27128	ENVIRON	 148FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
27128	SCISOC	 138FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27128	SCISOC	 138FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(R) Research
27128	SCISOC	 138FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27128	SCISOC	 138FS	GENOMICS OF SYMBIOSIS	Genomic insights into the astonishingly diverse microbial world, including microbes that interact with hosts in beneficial and harmful ways. Dominance of microbes in our own bodies, which contain 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells and 150 times more bacterial genes than human genes. Understanding how microbial interactions have impacted life's history, genome evolution, ecology, and human health. Factors that dictate trajectories toward parasitism versus mutualism, how microbial symbionts respond to environmental change, molecular and cellular mechanisms of homeostasis. Readings will focus on primary articles. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
27133	ECS	220	WATER SCIENCES	Fundamental principles and challenges in water sciences on local, regional and global scales. Topics include the global hydrological cycle, impact of climate change on water availability, principles of surface water and groundwater flow, fundamentals of water quality, the energy-water nexus, and scientific and technological approaches used to trace pollutants and remediate contamination. Relationships between human activities (anthropogenic effects) and naturally occurring processes that affect local and global water availability and quality. Emphasis on cutting edge water research and human and environmental impacts. Recommended prerequisite: Earth and Ocean Sciences 101, Environment 102, or equivalents, and introductory chemistry.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27133	ECS	220	WATER SCIENCES	Fundamental principles and challenges in water sciences on local, regional and global scales. Topics include the global hydrological cycle, impact of climate change on water availability, principles of surface water and groundwater flow, fundamentals of water quality, the energy-water nexus, and scientific and technological approaches used to trace pollutants and remediate contamination. Relationships between human activities (anthropogenic effects) and naturally occurring processes that affect local and global water availability and quality. Emphasis on cutting edge water research and human and environmental impacts. Recommended prerequisite: Earth and Ocean Sciences 101, Environment 102, or equivalents, and introductory chemistry.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27133	ENVIRON	220	WATER SCIENCES	Fundamental principles and challenges in water sciences on local, regional and global scales. Topics include the global hydrological cycle, impact of climate change on water availability, principles of surface water and groundwater flow, fundamentals of water quality, the energy-water nexus, and scientific and technological approaches used to trace pollutants and remediate contamination. Relationships between human activities (anthropogenic effects) and naturally occurring processes that affect local and global water availability and quality. Emphasis on cutting edge water research and human and environmental impacts. Recommended prerequisite: Earth and Ocean Sciences 101, Environment 102, or equivalents, and introductory chemistry.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27133	ENVIRON	220	WATER SCIENCES	Fundamental principles and challenges in water sciences on local, regional and global scales. Topics include the global hydrological cycle, impact of climate change on water availability, principles of surface water and groundwater flow, fundamentals of water quality, the energy-water nexus, and scientific and technological approaches used to trace pollutants and remediate contamination. Relationships between human activities (anthropogenic effects) and naturally occurring processes that affect local and global water availability and quality. Emphasis on cutting edge water research and human and environmental impacts. Recommended prerequisite: Earth and Ocean Sciences 101, Environment 102, or equivalents, and introductory chemistry.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27133	EOS	220	WATER SCIENCES	Fundamental principles and challenges in water sciences on local, regional and global scales. Topics include the global hydrological cycle, impact of climate change on water availability, principles of surface water and groundwater flow, fundamentals of water quality, the energy-water nexus, and scientific and technological approaches used to trace pollutants and remediate contamination. Relationships between human activities (anthropogenic effects) and naturally occurring processes that affect local and global water availability and quality. Emphasis on cutting edge water research and human and environmental impacts. Recommended prerequisite: Earth and Ocean Sciences 101, Environment 102, or equivalents, and introductory chemistry.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27133	EOS	220	WATER SCIENCES	Fundamental principles and challenges in water sciences on local, regional and global scales. Topics include the global hydrological cycle, impact of climate change on water availability, principles of surface water and groundwater flow, fundamentals of water quality, the energy-water nexus, and scientific and technological approaches used to trace pollutants and remediate contamination. Relationships between human activities (anthropogenic effects) and naturally occurring processes that affect local and global water availability and quality. Emphasis on cutting edge water research and human and environmental impacts. Recommended prerequisite: Earth and Ocean Sciences 101, Environment 102, or equivalents, and introductory chemistry.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27135	THEATRST	 187S	READING THEATER	In the theater, what we read on the page is an artifact of performances that once happened as well as a blueprint for stage performances yet to come. In this course, we work as archeologists to explore the meanings of the artifact and as creatorson our feet and with our bodiesto unlock the potential meanings of the blueprint. The course focuses on six plays, drawn from different periods in history and different countries, and includes non-European and non-white perspectives.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27135	THEATRST	 187S	READING THEATER	In the theater, what we read on the page is an artifact of performances that once happened as well as a blueprint for stage performances yet to come. In this course, we work as archeologists to explore the meanings of the artifact and as creatorson our feet and with our bodiesto unlock the potential meanings of the blueprint. The course focuses on six plays, drawn from different periods in history and different countries, and includes non-European and non-white perspectives.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27135	THEATRST	 187S	READING THEATER	In the theater, what we read on the page is an artifact of performances that once happened as well as a blueprint for stage performances yet to come. In this course, we work as archeologists to explore the meanings of the artifact and as creatorson our feet and with our bodiesto unlock the potential meanings of the blueprint. The course focuses on six plays, drawn from different periods in history and different countries, and includes non-European and non-white perspectives.	(CZ) Civilizations
27135	THEATRST	 187S	READING THEATER	In the theater, what we read on the page is an artifact of performances that once happened as well as a blueprint for stage performances yet to come. In this course, we work as archeologists to explore the meanings of the artifact and as creatorson our feet and with our bodiesto unlock the potential meanings of the blueprint. The course focuses on six plays, drawn from different periods in history and different countries, and includes non-European and non-white perspectives.	Seminar
27146	COMPSCI	 316D	INTRO TO DATABASE SYSTEMS	Databases and relational database management systems. Data modeling, database design theory, data definition and manipulation languages, storaging and indexing techniques, query processing and optimization, concurrency control and recovery, database programming interfaces. Current research issues including XML, web data management, data integration and dissemination, data mining. Hands-on programming projects and a term project. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201, and Computer Science 210D or 250D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27146	COMPSCI	 316D	INTRO TO DATABASE SYSTEMS	Databases and relational database management systems. Data modeling, database design theory, data definition and manipulation languages, storaging and indexing techniques, query processing and optimization, concurrency control and recovery, database programming interfaces. Current research issues including XML, web data management, data integration and dissemination, data mining. Hands-on programming projects and a term project. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201, and Computer Science 210D or 250D.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27147	CHEM	 202L	ORGANIC CHEMISTRY II LAB	Laboratory that accompanies Chemistry 202D. Course provides hands-on synthesis, purification, and characterization of organic compounds. Major functional groups will be explored: aromatic and aliphatic compounds, carbonyls, alcohols, amines, etc. Techniques for separation of organic mixtures and determinations of yields will be practiced. Spectra (NMR, IR, UV, MS) will be collected to characterize compound structures. Responsible conduct in laboratory research practices will be emphasized, including but not limited to adherence to chemistry laboratory safety guidelines, proper laboratory notebook record keeping, analysis of data, and scientific writing.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27148	CHEM	 210L	MODERN APPLICATIONS LABORATORY	Laboratory accompanying Chemistry 210D. Course provides hands-on synthesis, purification, and characterization of inorganic, organic, and organometallic compounds. It illustrates experimental approaches to problems in biological, materials, or environmental chemistry. Emphasis on solutions of acids and bases, buffers, or complex ions as well as electron transfer reactions and UV-Vis techniques. Responsible conduct in laboratory research practices will be emphasized, including but not limited to adherence to chemistry laboratory safety guidelines, proper laboratory notebook record keeping, analysis of data, and scientific writing.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27196	HISTORY	354	NATIVE AMERICAN WOMEN	This course will explore the images and realities of Native American women in the history of North America from the pre-Columbian period through the present-day United States. We will concentrate on particular topics including: contrasting ideas of kinship, society, and gender egalitarianism; ways in which gender provided a language for the colonialism of European empires and the US nation-state; experiences of Native women as mediators of cultural exchange and as victims of cross-cultural conflict; and the role of gender in the creation of hierarchies of identity, race, and power.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27196	HISTORY	354	NATIVE AMERICAN WOMEN	This course will explore the images and realities of Native American women in the history of North America from the pre-Columbian period through the present-day United States. We will concentrate on particular topics including: contrasting ideas of kinship, society, and gender egalitarianism; ways in which gender provided a language for the colonialism of European empires and the US nation-state; experiences of Native women as mediators of cultural exchange and as victims of cross-cultural conflict; and the role of gender in the creation of hierarchies of identity, race, and power.	(CZ) Civilizations
27270	AAAS	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27270	AAAS	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27270	AAAS	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(SS) Social Sciences
27270	FRENCH	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27270	FRENCH	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27270	FRENCH	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(SS) Social Sciences
27270	MUSIC	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27270	MUSIC	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27270	MUSIC	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(SS) Social Sciences
27270	ROMST	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27270	ROMST	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27270	ROMST	430	MUSIC HIST, POL:CONTEMP AFRICA	The objective of the course is to analyze the social, political and cultural dynamics of post-independence African states through the musical archive. The course will analyze the role that music has played in the construction of national identities in post-colonial African states, but also in social, political and cultural dynamics of contemporary Africa. From High-life in Ghana to Congolese rumba, Afrobeat in Nigeria, reggae, Hip Hop and Ra, it will show how music has accompanied societal and political evolutions of African nations. The course will think of music as a landscape and analyze the musical circulation, as a space for the constitution of African societal modernities. In English.	(SS) Social Sciences
27273	GLHLTH	 326-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27273	GLHLTH	 326-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
27273	HLTHPOL	 306-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27273	HLTHPOL	 306-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
27273	LSGS	 306-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27273	LSGS	 306-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
27273	SPANISH	 306-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27273	SPANISH	 306-1	HEALTH, CULTURE: SERVICE-LRNG	Exploration of health issues in the Spanish-speaking world shaped by social, cultural, political, ethnic, and economic determinants. Topics: cultural competency, community beliefs, medical practices and policies, preventive medicine, mental health. This is a service-learning or community-engaged course. Engagement may include direct, project-based, or research-focused service with local/global community partners among other engaged practices. Evaluation on knowledge of content, oral and written proficiency in Spanish. One 300-level Spanish course recommended prior to enrolling. Prerequisite: Spanish 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
27298	ETHICS	203	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(CZ) Civilizations
27298	ETHICS	203	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27298	ETHICS	203	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(W) Writing
27298	POLSCI	208	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(CZ) Civilizations
27298	POLSCI	208	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27298	POLSCI	208	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(W) Writing
27298	PUBPOL	202	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(CZ) Civilizations
27298	PUBPOL	202	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27298	PUBPOL	202	POLITICAL POLARIZATION	Americans today live in a time of deep political polarization, cultural tribalism, and self-segregation. To many, it feels like we're in the middle of a cultural civil war that is turning violent. Those with whom we have deep disagreements, assuming we interact with them at all, are often viewed as not just wrong but as irrational, immoral, even contemptible. Is this a good thing? What sort of habits of mind (e.g. intellectual humility and charity) and practices should we cultivate in response to this reality in order to sustain a healthy democracy? Special attention paid to the university, cancel culture, free speech, social media, and identity politics. Lively discussion is encouraged.	(W) Writing
27301	CMAC	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(R) Research
27301	CMAC	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(SS) Social Sciences
27301	CMAC	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27301	CMAC	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	Seminar
27301	COMPSCI	 112S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(R) Research
27301	COMPSCI	 112S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(SS) Social Sciences
27301	COMPSCI	 112S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27301	COMPSCI	 112S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	Seminar
27301	GSF	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(R) Research
27301	GSF	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(SS) Social Sciences
27301	GSF	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27301	GSF	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	Seminar
27301	I&E	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(R) Research
27301	I&E	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(SS) Social Sciences
27301	I&E	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27301	I&E	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	Seminar
27301	ISS	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(R) Research
27301	ISS	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(SS) Social Sciences
27301	ISS	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27301	ISS	 265S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	Seminar
27301	SOCIOL	 217S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(R) Research
27301	SOCIOL	 217S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(SS) Social Sciences
27301	SOCIOL	 217S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27301	SOCIOL	 217S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	Seminar
27301	VMS	 286S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(R) Research
27301	VMS	 286S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(SS) Social Sciences
27301	VMS	 286S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27301	VMS	 286S	DIGITAL FEMINISM	The aim of this course is to critically analyze digital culture from a feminist and gender studies perspective. We will address topics related to digital innovation and its history, unpacking and questioning them through the insights offered by genders studies analytical tools. Subjects such as the rise of the Silicon Valley, gaming culture, social media, algorithms, Artificial Intelligence, extraction of data applied to biotechnology, macroeconomic development of IT platforms and the impact of technology on ecology will be discussed starting from a current event or debate, to which we will give a historical, ethical, sociological, theoretical, literary or cinematographic perspective.	Seminar
27305	AMES	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27305	AMES	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(CZ) Civilizations
27305	AMES	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(R) Research
27305	AMES	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(SS) Social Sciences
27305	RELIGION	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27305	RELIGION	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(CZ) Civilizations
27305	RELIGION	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(R) Research
27305	RELIGION	267	SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS	This course address one of the most pressing questions in the study of religion today: What does it mean to be 'spiritual but not religious'? This is a question that frequently appears in survey research; about a quarter of U.S. adults 'now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious' (Pew). In this course, we address the big questions about how to define 'religion' and 'spirituality,' and we use empirical data to acquire a new understanding of the lived experience of people who are 'spiritual but not religious,' not only in the United States, but also in Asia and other parts of the world.	(SS) Social Sciences
27306	AMES	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27306	AMES	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27306	AMES	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27306	AMES	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(R) Research
27306	AMES	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	Seminar
27306	RELIGION	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27306	RELIGION	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27306	RELIGION	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27306	RELIGION	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	(R) Research
27306	RELIGION	 203S	MODERN ISLAM	Course designed to give students mastery over debates in modern Islam. Islam's encounter with modernity, women's rights, fundamentalism, and colonialism. No background is necessary. Readings in English.	Seminar
27416	ARTHIST	139	SEVEN WONDERS	Study of the 'Seven Wonders' of the ancient world: the Great Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, the Colossus of Rhodes, and the Lighthouse of Alexandria. Course explores the meaning of these monuments to the societies that produced them, with attention to their chronological and geographical specificity. Topics include: how archaeologists approach ancient monuments; what these monuments tell us about the human experience and about life in the past; who precisely they bear witness to; and how the study of such monuments helps us to understand our own present.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27416	ARTHIST	139	SEVEN WONDERS	Study of the 'Seven Wonders' of the ancient world: the Great Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, the Colossus of Rhodes, and the Lighthouse of Alexandria. Course explores the meaning of these monuments to the societies that produced them, with attention to their chronological and geographical specificity. Topics include: how archaeologists approach ancient monuments; what these monuments tell us about the human experience and about life in the past; who precisely they bear witness to; and how the study of such monuments helps us to understand our own present.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27416	ARTHIST	139	SEVEN WONDERS	Study of the 'Seven Wonders' of the ancient world: the Great Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, the Colossus of Rhodes, and the Lighthouse of Alexandria. Course explores the meaning of these monuments to the societies that produced them, with attention to their chronological and geographical specificity. Topics include: how archaeologists approach ancient monuments; what these monuments tell us about the human experience and about life in the past; who precisely they bear witness to; and how the study of such monuments helps us to understand our own present.	(CZ) Civilizations
27416	CLST	139	SEVEN WONDERS	Study of the 'Seven Wonders' of the ancient world: the Great Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, the Colossus of Rhodes, and the Lighthouse of Alexandria. Course explores the meaning of these monuments to the societies that produced them, with attention to their chronological and geographical specificity. Topics include: how archaeologists approach ancient monuments; what these monuments tell us about the human experience and about life in the past; who precisely they bear witness to; and how the study of such monuments helps us to understand our own present.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27416	CLST	139	SEVEN WONDERS	Study of the 'Seven Wonders' of the ancient world: the Great Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, the Colossus of Rhodes, and the Lighthouse of Alexandria. Course explores the meaning of these monuments to the societies that produced them, with attention to their chronological and geographical specificity. Topics include: how archaeologists approach ancient monuments; what these monuments tell us about the human experience and about life in the past; who precisely they bear witness to; and how the study of such monuments helps us to understand our own present.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27416	CLST	139	SEVEN WONDERS	Study of the 'Seven Wonders' of the ancient world: the Great Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, the Colossus of Rhodes, and the Lighthouse of Alexandria. Course explores the meaning of these monuments to the societies that produced them, with attention to their chronological and geographical specificity. Topics include: how archaeologists approach ancient monuments; what these monuments tell us about the human experience and about life in the past; who precisely they bear witness to; and how the study of such monuments helps us to understand our own present.	(CZ) Civilizations
27437	I&E	350	CUSTOMER EMPATHY BRAND DESIGN	Before Dollar Shave Club, we went to Target to save on Gillette. We still buy traditional brands at traditional stores. But a host of these disruptors are cutting out the middleman while redefining brick-and-mortar retail. Amazon now gets us whatever we want, whenever and wherever we want it. Dollar Shave Club quickly amassed 3 million subscribers. These 'direct-to-consumer' brands control every customer interaction. These brands become as much about that experience as about the product itself. This requires customer empathy. Armed with these insights, we can create brands that reframe peoples' category expectations and, in best cases, enhance their lives.	(SS) Social Sciences
27454	AAAS	 253S	IND. AFRICAN AMERICAN CINEMA	Independent African American Independent cinema from the silent film era to the present. Perspectives on issues of politics, representation, cultural identity, marginality and difference in contemporary American society. Focus on independent directorial figures and their intervention through genres, historical movements, and modes of production to examine how innovation helps define African American cinema's rich past and possibilities as well as key shifts in the larger social contexts of race, gender, and class in the United States.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27454	AAAS	 253S	IND. AFRICAN AMERICAN CINEMA	Independent African American Independent cinema from the silent film era to the present. Perspectives on issues of politics, representation, cultural identity, marginality and difference in contemporary American society. Focus on independent directorial figures and their intervention through genres, historical movements, and modes of production to examine how innovation helps define African American cinema's rich past and possibilities as well as key shifts in the larger social contexts of race, gender, and class in the United States.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27454	AAAS	 253S	IND. AFRICAN AMERICAN CINEMA	Independent African American Independent cinema from the silent film era to the present. Perspectives on issues of politics, representation, cultural identity, marginality and difference in contemporary American society. Focus on independent directorial figures and their intervention through genres, historical movements, and modes of production to examine how innovation helps define African American cinema's rich past and possibilities as well as key shifts in the larger social contexts of race, gender, and class in the United States.	Seminar
27454	VMS	 253S	IND. AFRICAN AMERICAN CINEMA	Independent African American Independent cinema from the silent film era to the present. Perspectives on issues of politics, representation, cultural identity, marginality and difference in contemporary American society. Focus on independent directorial figures and their intervention through genres, historical movements, and modes of production to examine how innovation helps define African American cinema's rich past and possibilities as well as key shifts in the larger social contexts of race, gender, and class in the United States.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27454	VMS	 253S	IND. AFRICAN AMERICAN CINEMA	Independent African American Independent cinema from the silent film era to the present. Perspectives on issues of politics, representation, cultural identity, marginality and difference in contemporary American society. Focus on independent directorial figures and their intervention through genres, historical movements, and modes of production to examine how innovation helps define African American cinema's rich past and possibilities as well as key shifts in the larger social contexts of race, gender, and class in the United States.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27454	VMS	 253S	IND. AFRICAN AMERICAN CINEMA	Independent African American Independent cinema from the silent film era to the present. Perspectives on issues of politics, representation, cultural identity, marginality and difference in contemporary American society. Focus on independent directorial figures and their intervention through genres, historical movements, and modes of production to examine how innovation helps define African American cinema's rich past and possibilities as well as key shifts in the larger social contexts of race, gender, and class in the United States.	Seminar
27455	HISTORY	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27455	HISTORY	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	(CZ) Civilizations
27455	HISTORY	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	(R) Research
27455	HISTORY	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	Seminar
27455	LSGS	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27455	LSGS	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	(CZ) Civilizations
27455	LSGS	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	(R) Research
27455	LSGS	 366S	LATINX SOCIAL MOVEMENTS	Over the course of the twentieth-century various Latino/a groups have mobilized their growing power to make demands for social justice and equality. This course will study the history of Latino/a organizing from the 1940s to the contemporary moment. Some of the groups we will examine include: the Chicano movement, the Young Lords Party, Chicana feminists, Third World Women's Alliance, DREAMers, resistance to Arizona's SB1070, and UndocuQueer. We will look at the history of political organizations, community formation, identity development, and movement ideology.	Seminar
27474	AMES	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27474	AMES	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27474	AMES	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27474	AMES	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(W) Writing
27474	AMES	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	Seminar
27474	MEDREN	 359S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27474	MEDREN	 359S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27474	MEDREN	 359S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27474	MEDREN	 359S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(W) Writing
27474	MEDREN	 359S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	Seminar
27474	RELIGION	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27474	RELIGION	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27474	RELIGION	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(CZ) Civilizations
27474	RELIGION	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	(W) Writing
27474	RELIGION	 209S	LOVE, SPIRIT, AND MYSTICISM	Examination of Love-based spirituality in multiple religious traditions. Focus on material originating from Persian, Urdu, Turkish, and Arabic sources. Readings will include literature and songs in English.	Seminar
27487	MUSIC	 161-2	INTRO TO MUSIC THEORY: TECH	This introductory course covers the fundamentals of music theory and music literacy through music software and digital audio workspaces like Ableton Live, Logic, Garage Band, and ProTools. Topics include major and minor scales, modes, keys, time signatures, meter, intervals, triads, seventh chords, inversions, basic application of Roman numeral harmonic analysis, and form. Students create short electronic compositions that employ the theoretical concepts explored in the class. Other topics include exploration of popular and classical idioms and the development of basic aural skills.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27507	AAAS	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27507	AAAS	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
27507	AAAS	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27507	AAAS	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
27507	HISTORY	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27507	HISTORY	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
27507	HISTORY	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27507	HISTORY	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
27507	SOCIOL	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27507	SOCIOL	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
27507	SOCIOL	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27507	SOCIOL	288	HISTORY OF INEQUALITY	This course familiarizes students with the field of Inequality Studies through examination of the causes and consequences of social inequality throughout history. It addresses theories of group and sub-group social stratification and ways that disparity operates across multiple axes of stigmatized identities. This is a required course for the minor in Inequality Studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
27530	SOCIOL	290	SPECIAL TOPICS		Topics Course
27551	DOCST	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN DOC STUDIES	Topics vary each semester.	Seminar
27551	DOCST	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN DOC STUDIES	Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
27552	DOCST	191	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Supervision and guidance of individual, documentary production-based topics. Consent of director of undergraduate studies required.	Independent Study
27554	DOCST	190	SPECIAL TOPICS IN DOC STUDIES	Topics vary each semester.	Topics Course
27621	CINE	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual work in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member. Goal is a project covering a previously approved topic.	Independent Study
27622	CINE	491	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Independent Study.	Independent Study
27673	ECS	103	CLIMATE CHANGE	The science of climate change, including the factors that control the Earth's climate system, the methods used to study climate variations, the nature of climate models and prediction scenarios, the changes of the Earth's climate through time, and the evidence that modern-day climate change is human-induced. Related topics include examination of the impacts of climate change on past and present societies, biodiversity, and human health, as well as potential alternative energy and engineering solutions, and the social, political, religious and economic challenges associated with responding and adapting to climate change.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27673	ECS	103	CLIMATE CHANGE	The science of climate change, including the factors that control the Earth's climate system, the methods used to study climate variations, the nature of climate models and prediction scenarios, the changes of the Earth's climate through time, and the evidence that modern-day climate change is human-induced. Related topics include examination of the impacts of climate change on past and present societies, biodiversity, and human health, as well as potential alternative energy and engineering solutions, and the social, political, religious and economic challenges associated with responding and adapting to climate change.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27673	EOS	103	CLIMATE CHANGE	The science of climate change, including the factors that control the Earth's climate system, the methods used to study climate variations, the nature of climate models and prediction scenarios, the changes of the Earth's climate through time, and the evidence that modern-day climate change is human-induced. Related topics include examination of the impacts of climate change on past and present societies, biodiversity, and human health, as well as potential alternative energy and engineering solutions, and the social, political, religious and economic challenges associated with responding and adapting to climate change.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27673	EOS	103	CLIMATE CHANGE	The science of climate change, including the factors that control the Earth's climate system, the methods used to study climate variations, the nature of climate models and prediction scenarios, the changes of the Earth's climate through time, and the evidence that modern-day climate change is human-induced. Related topics include examination of the impacts of climate change on past and present societies, biodiversity, and human health, as well as potential alternative energy and engineering solutions, and the social, political, religious and economic challenges associated with responding and adapting to climate change.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27675	AAAS	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27675	AAAS	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27675	AAAS	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(R) Research
27675	AAAS	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(SS) Social Sciences
27675	ECON	436	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27675	ECON	436	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27675	ECON	436	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(R) Research
27675	ECON	436	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(SS) Social Sciences
27675	POLSCI	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27675	POLSCI	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27675	POLSCI	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(R) Research
27675	POLSCI	425	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(SS) Social Sciences
27675	PUBPOL	435	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27675	PUBPOL	435	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27675	PUBPOL	435	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(R) Research
27675	PUBPOL	435	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(SS) Social Sciences
27675	RIGHTS	444	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27675	RIGHTS	444	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27675	RIGHTS	444	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(R) Research
27675	RIGHTS	444	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(SS) Social Sciences
27675	SOCIOL	442	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27675	SOCIOL	442	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27675	SOCIOL	442	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(R) Research
27675	SOCIOL	442	GLOBAL INEQUALITY RESEARCH	Engagement of vertically integrated research teams in projects exploring racial and ethnic disparities exhibited and expressed in six arenas, employment, wealth, health, political participation, education, and arts and culture. Each team will produce a major paper that will qualify for submission to a refereed journal in the area (relevant to the focus of the study. Course is not open to students who have taken Public Policy 645 or 645S.	(SS) Social Sciences
27677	EDUC	 118FS	CRITICAL RACE THEORY IN EDUC	Critical exploration of systemic and endemic racism and ways that structural racism intersects with educational systems. Course begins with an examination of identity, positionality, privilege, bias at the individual level, then moves to an analysis of institutional structures and systems. Students will reflect on their educational experiences and apply case study analysis to their own K-12 education utilizing the framework of critical race theory. Students will examine data on educational inequities and work in teams to prepare a policy proposal that addresses systemic racial inequities within K-12 education.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27677	EDUC	 118FS	CRITICAL RACE THEORY IN EDUC	Critical exploration of systemic and endemic racism and ways that structural racism intersects with educational systems. Course begins with an examination of identity, positionality, privilege, bias at the individual level, then moves to an analysis of institutional structures and systems. Students will reflect on their educational experiences and apply case study analysis to their own K-12 education utilizing the framework of critical race theory. Students will examine data on educational inequities and work in teams to prepare a policy proposal that addresses systemic racial inequities within K-12 education.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27677	EDUC	 118FS	CRITICAL RACE THEORY IN EDUC	Critical exploration of systemic and endemic racism and ways that structural racism intersects with educational systems. Course begins with an examination of identity, positionality, privilege, bias at the individual level, then moves to an analysis of institutional structures and systems. Students will reflect on their educational experiences and apply case study analysis to their own K-12 education utilizing the framework of critical race theory. Students will examine data on educational inequities and work in teams to prepare a policy proposal that addresses systemic racial inequities within K-12 education.	(SS) Social Sciences
27677	EDUC	 118FS	CRITICAL RACE THEORY IN EDUC	Critical exploration of systemic and endemic racism and ways that structural racism intersects with educational systems. Course begins with an examination of identity, positionality, privilege, bias at the individual level, then moves to an analysis of institutional structures and systems. Students will reflect on their educational experiences and apply case study analysis to their own K-12 education utilizing the framework of critical race theory. Students will examine data on educational inequities and work in teams to prepare a policy proposal that addresses systemic racial inequities within K-12 education.	Seminar
27679	PUBPOL	 188FS	ECO, POL, AND GLOBAL HLTH	Imagine driving a car, blindfolded, with instructions from the backseat on what to do and they are rarely in agreement. How do you decide what to do, which instructions to rely on? Policy making in a fast-moving epidemic (such as the COVID-19) can often look like this. This course will help students understand: Where does data for policy come from? How is data on epidemics generated and synthesized? Why does data become controversial  what is the 'truth'? Responding to data  differences between clinical settings and population settings. How does data inform policy  or more precisely, why does it not inform policy. How can future leaders do better? Consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
27679	PUBPOL	 188FS	ECO, POL, AND GLOBAL HLTH	Imagine driving a car, blindfolded, with instructions from the backseat on what to do and they are rarely in agreement. How do you decide what to do, which instructions to rely on? Policy making in a fast-moving epidemic (such as the COVID-19) can often look like this. This course will help students understand: Where does data for policy come from? How is data on epidemics generated and synthesized? Why does data become controversial  what is the 'truth'? Responding to data  differences between clinical settings and population settings. How does data inform policy  or more precisely, why does it not inform policy. How can future leaders do better? Consent required.	Seminar
27693	ECON	254	PERSONAL FINANCE	Course covers fundamentals of personal financial management: how to create and stay within a budget; how debit and credit cards work; how to borrow, manage, and pay off student debt; how to build a credit history to obtain the best possible rates on future loans (such as mortgages); best practices for cybersecurity; how to manage taxes; and how to invest for the future. Typical irrational behaviors common to financial decision-making such as prospect theory and framing errors will be introduced, and strategies to avoid them discussed. Changing dynamics of the financial services industry as a result of ongoing disruptive innovation ('FinTech') are also addressed.	(SS) Social Sciences
27695	SPANISH	112	ACCELERATED ELEM SPANISH	This course is designed for students with 2-3 years of high school Spanish whose level of Spanish places them between Spanish 101 and 102. We review concepts from Spanish 101 at the beginning of the semester before moving on to Spanish 102. The course focuses on basic Spanish structures, functions and vocabulary with the goal of having students interact, problem solve and collaborate in the target language. This course develops the interpersonal, interpretive and presentational communication modes.	(CZ) Civilizations
27695	SPANISH	112	ACCELERATED ELEM SPANISH	This course is designed for students with 2-3 years of high school Spanish whose level of Spanish places them between Spanish 101 and 102. We review concepts from Spanish 101 at the beginning of the semester before moving on to Spanish 102. The course focuses on basic Spanish structures, functions and vocabulary with the goal of having students interact, problem solve and collaborate in the target language. This course develops the interpersonal, interpretive and presentational communication modes.	(FL) Foreign Language
27700	STA	211	MATH OF REGRESSION	Introduction to mathematics underpinning linear regression and logistic regression. Estimation methods, including maximum likelihood and least squares estimation of regression parameters. Linear algebra in regression modeling. Prerequisite: Mathematics 216, 218, or 221; Prerequisite or Corequisite: Statistical Science 210.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27701	DOCST	 179FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27701	DOCST	 179FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	(R) Research
27701	DOCST	 179FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	Seminar
27701	ETHICS	 179FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27701	ETHICS	 179FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	(R) Research
27701	ETHICS	 179FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	Seminar
27701	PUBPOL	 189FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27701	PUBPOL	 189FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	(R) Research
27701	PUBPOL	 189FS	YOUTH JUSTICE MOVEMENTS	Immersion in the dangerous and contentious recent history of youth activism in environmental and racial justice movements worldwide. Using oral history, archival research methods, and cultural production, students explore methods for researching documenting and creating narratives of youth social activism. Historical and contemporary youth campaigns explored in this course include those to protect land, soil, air and people from pollutants in Black, Indigenous, and Global South communities. All of these movements have expanded the legal, narrative, and practical understanding of environmental and human rights in US and global frameworks.	Seminar
27727	AMES	191	INDIAN LIT OF MARGINALIZED	To introduce literature and film of Indian marginalized society. Topics including Dalits, Women, and the LGBTQ community. To help understand the complexity of marginalized society in India. Literature and films chosen from various Indian languages. Different genres such as stories, novels, plays, cartoons, poetry.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27727	AMES	191	INDIAN LIT OF MARGINALIZED	To introduce literature and film of Indian marginalized society. Topics including Dalits, Women, and the LGBTQ community. To help understand the complexity of marginalized society in India. Literature and films chosen from various Indian languages. Different genres such as stories, novels, plays, cartoons, poetry.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27727	AMES	191	INDIAN LIT OF MARGINALIZED	To introduce literature and film of Indian marginalized society. Topics including Dalits, Women, and the LGBTQ community. To help understand the complexity of marginalized society in India. Literature and films chosen from various Indian languages. Different genres such as stories, novels, plays, cartoons, poetry.	(CZ) Civilizations
27727	AMES	191	INDIAN LIT OF MARGINALIZED	To introduce literature and film of Indian marginalized society. Topics including Dalits, Women, and the LGBTQ community. To help understand the complexity of marginalized society in India. Literature and films chosen from various Indian languages. Different genres such as stories, novels, plays, cartoons, poetry.	(SS) Social Sciences
27775	AMES	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27775	AMES	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(SS) Social Sciences
27775	AMES	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	Seminar
27775	ICS	 186FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27775	ICS	 186FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(SS) Social Sciences
27775	ICS	 186FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	Seminar
27775	ISS	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27775	ISS	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(SS) Social Sciences
27775	ISS	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	Seminar
27775	LIT	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27775	LIT	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(SS) Social Sciences
27775	LIT	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	Seminar
27775	POLSCI	 186FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27775	POLSCI	 186FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(SS) Social Sciences
27775	POLSCI	 186FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	Seminar
27775	VMS	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27775	VMS	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	(SS) Social Sciences
27775	VMS	 188FS	GAMES AND CULTURE	Examines analog and computer games from a cultural perspective. Explores how prevailing culture and values affect game design, popularity, and experience. how games affect those areas of culture, such as imagining disaster, utopia and dystopia. Explores role-playing and identity, ethics, group behavior, competition, politics, gender, race, and aesthetics.	Seminar
27778	STA	344	INTRO SPATIO-TEMPORAL MODELS	Introduction to modeling of data with spatial and/or time dependence. This course introduces methods and tools for manipulating, exploring, and modeling spatial (point referenced and areal) and time series data (discrete and continuous). Some of the key modeling techniques covered include: Gaussian processes and their generalizations; CAR, SAR, IAR, and kriging models; ARM, ARMA, and dynamic linear models. The course will cover the underlying statistical theory behind these models as well as the use of computational tools for the application of these models to real data. Prerequisites: STA 210 and one of (STA 230, 231 or 240) and pre- or co-requisite: STA 211	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27779	LINGUIST	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27779	LINGUIST	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(SS) Social Sciences
27779	LINGUIST	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
27779	NEUROSCI	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27779	NEUROSCI	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(SS) Social Sciences
27779	NEUROSCI	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
27779	PSY	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27779	PSY	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(SS) Social Sciences
27779	PSY	 121FS	SLEEP IN SOCIETY	Exploration of sleep as it intersects anthropology, history, psychology, neurology, sociology, linguistics, and public policy. Topics range from normal sleep and circadian rhythms to the evolution of sleep and sleep habits around the world. Social determinants of sleep in the United States are considered. Students discuss racism and public policies in sleep health, the costs of massive societal sleep deprivation, the history and cultural narratives of dream interpretation, and principles of clinical sleep medicine. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
27787	AMES	222	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27787	AMES	222	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27787	AMES	222	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(CZ) Civilizations
27787	CINE	259	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27787	CINE	259	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27787	CINE	259	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(CZ) Civilizations
27787	RELIGION	221	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27787	RELIGION	221	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27787	RELIGION	221	INDIAN CINEMA & SOCIAL CHANGE	Considers the transnational purchase, aesthetic, and civic sensibilities of Indian cinema focusing on Hindi-language films. Review begins with emergence of Indian cinema in 1890s, then considers how social change became a driving force during anti-colonial resistance and nationalist reform. Course focuses on the post-independence (1947-) period, when social justice activism enters the mainframe of 'Bollywood' film. Core inquiry centers on how the cinematic imaginary of India perceives faultlines in Indian society and expresses its social voice. Themes include caste, gender, sanitation, poverty, successfulness, religious fundamentalism, ageism, and sexuality.	(CZ) Civilizations
27788	ISS	397	INFO, SOC & CULT RESEARCH PR	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to explore the evolution of society and culture through the lens of information, using the latest computational methods to address pressing problems in new and creative ways. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
27792	COMPSCI	333	ALGORITHMS IN THE REAL WORLD	Design and implementation of modern algorithms. Stresses application and project based development of algorithmic techniques. Emphasis on algorithmic ideas that have had substantial impact in the real world, including approximation, randomization, hashing, streaming, spectral techniques, optimization, and search. Project-driven: Several homework assignments as well as a larger student-driven course project researching, designing, and implementing algorithms for a substantive problem with real world applications. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201 and and Computer Science 230 or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27792	COMPSCI	333	ALGORITHMS IN THE REAL WORLD	Design and implementation of modern algorithms. Stresses application and project based development of algorithmic techniques. Emphasis on algorithmic ideas that have had substantial impact in the real world, including approximation, randomization, hashing, streaming, spectral techniques, optimization, and search. Project-driven: Several homework assignments as well as a larger student-driven course project researching, designing, and implementing algorithms for a substantive problem with real world applications. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201 and and Computer Science 230 or equivalent.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27797	CMAC	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(CZ) Civilizations
27797	CMAC	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27797	CMAC	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27797	CMAC	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	Seminar
27797	ISS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(CZ) Civilizations
27797	ISS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27797	ISS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27797	ISS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	Seminar
27797	VMS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(CZ) Civilizations
27797	VMS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27797	VMS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27797	VMS	 187FS	DIGITAL STORYTELLING	Digital storytelling methodologies, theory, and practice. In-depth analysis of digital storytelling in various media forms and modes of production. Cultural impact of new media narratives. Exploration of digital storytelling affordances and approaches: text, video, audio, design, animation, and interactivity. Critical analysis of existing media and remediation of older media forms. Experimentation with non-linear, spatial, ludic, and hypermedia approaches. Questions of authorship, agency, authority, and collaboration in blogs, games, fan fiction, adaptations. Hands-on experience developing digital narratives and creating digital critiques. Analytical paper and regular crits.	Seminar
27798	ICS	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27798	ICS	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
27798	ICS	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	Seminar
27798	LINGUIST	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27798	LINGUIST	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
27798	LINGUIST	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	Seminar
27798	SOCIOL	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27798	SOCIOL	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	(SS) Social Sciences
27798	SOCIOL	 125FS	LANGUAGES, MARGINS, BORDERS	Examines the relationships between language and contemporary migration patterns that, directly or indirectly, affect millions of people across the globe, focusing especially on migration flows related to humanitarian challenges. Divided into three key themes, it analyzes the representation of migrants and migration in media and culture; language practices of migrants, including translanguaging and language learning; and policies towards migrants and their languages that pertain to governance in linguistically diverse societies. Interdisciplinary in approach, readings are drawn from linguistic anthropology and sociolinguistics, as well as political sociology and public policy studies.	Seminar
27802	CULANTH	 114FS	MAKING YOUR CASE	This course equips students with public speaking skills and cultural awareness in the pursuit of effective advocacy for humanitarian causes. At the heart of students' initiative for advocacy lie three questions: 1) Does it improve the human condition? 2) Will it cause no harm and 3) Is it ethical? Centered on the skill of researching an area of humanitarian need, and presenting an initiative of advocacy through effective communication skills, it stresses the critical importance of cultural and ethical considerations in both the analysis of humanitarian challenges, and processes through which these pressing issues can be addressed in the quest of advocating for change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27802	CULANTH	 114FS	MAKING YOUR CASE	This course equips students with public speaking skills and cultural awareness in the pursuit of effective advocacy for humanitarian causes. At the heart of students' initiative for advocacy lie three questions: 1) Does it improve the human condition? 2) Will it cause no harm and 3) Is it ethical? Centered on the skill of researching an area of humanitarian need, and presenting an initiative of advocacy through effective communication skills, it stresses the critical importance of cultural and ethical considerations in both the analysis of humanitarian challenges, and processes through which these pressing issues can be addressed in the quest of advocating for change.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27802	CULANTH	 114FS	MAKING YOUR CASE	This course equips students with public speaking skills and cultural awareness in the pursuit of effective advocacy for humanitarian causes. At the heart of students' initiative for advocacy lie three questions: 1) Does it improve the human condition? 2) Will it cause no harm and 3) Is it ethical? Centered on the skill of researching an area of humanitarian need, and presenting an initiative of advocacy through effective communication skills, it stresses the critical importance of cultural and ethical considerations in both the analysis of humanitarian challenges, and processes through which these pressing issues can be addressed in the quest of advocating for change.	(SS) Social Sciences
27802	CULANTH	 114FS	MAKING YOUR CASE	This course equips students with public speaking skills and cultural awareness in the pursuit of effective advocacy for humanitarian causes. At the heart of students' initiative for advocacy lie three questions: 1) Does it improve the human condition? 2) Will it cause no harm and 3) Is it ethical? Centered on the skill of researching an area of humanitarian need, and presenting an initiative of advocacy through effective communication skills, it stresses the critical importance of cultural and ethical considerations in both the analysis of humanitarian challenges, and processes through which these pressing issues can be addressed in the quest of advocating for change.	(W) Writing
27802	CULANTH	 114FS	MAKING YOUR CASE	This course equips students with public speaking skills and cultural awareness in the pursuit of effective advocacy for humanitarian causes. At the heart of students' initiative for advocacy lie three questions: 1) Does it improve the human condition? 2) Will it cause no harm and 3) Is it ethical? Centered on the skill of researching an area of humanitarian need, and presenting an initiative of advocacy through effective communication skills, it stresses the critical importance of cultural and ethical considerations in both the analysis of humanitarian challenges, and processes through which these pressing issues can be addressed in the quest of advocating for change.	Seminar
27803	HISTORY	 301T	APPLIED HISTORICAL RESEARCH	Project-based course in which undergraduate and graduate students work collaboratively to produce a significant public-facing research product drawing on historical analysis. Topics vary depending on section. Students will gain a conceptual understanding of the project topic, develop research plans, conduct new research, and develop a final product containing significant analysis and interpretation (e.g., exhibits, databases, oral histories, data visualizations). Graduate students will mentor undergraduate students and take leadership roles in facilitating projects. Some courses will continue in a two-semester sequence. Instructor consent required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27803	HISTORY	 301T	APPLIED HISTORICAL RESEARCH	Project-based course in which undergraduate and graduate students work collaboratively to produce a significant public-facing research product drawing on historical analysis. Topics vary depending on section. Students will gain a conceptual understanding of the project topic, develop research plans, conduct new research, and develop a final product containing significant analysis and interpretation (e.g., exhibits, databases, oral histories, data visualizations). Graduate students will mentor undergraduate students and take leadership roles in facilitating projects. Some courses will continue in a two-semester sequence. Instructor consent required.	(CZ) Civilizations
27803	HISTORY	 301T	APPLIED HISTORICAL RESEARCH	Project-based course in which undergraduate and graduate students work collaboratively to produce a significant public-facing research product drawing on historical analysis. Topics vary depending on section. Students will gain a conceptual understanding of the project topic, develop research plans, conduct new research, and develop a final product containing significant analysis and interpretation (e.g., exhibits, databases, oral histories, data visualizations). Graduate students will mentor undergraduate students and take leadership roles in facilitating projects. Some courses will continue in a two-semester sequence. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
27807	COMPSCI	240	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27807	COMPSCI	240	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(SS) Social Sciences
27807	COMPSCI	240	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27807	COMPSCI	240	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(W) Writing
27807	GSF	242	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27807	GSF	242	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(SS) Social Sciences
27807	GSF	242	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27807	GSF	242	RACE GENDER CLASS & COMPUTING	This course explores the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) challenges in computing through an introduction to and analysis of identity as a social construct, its impact on computing departments and organizations, and the resulting impact of technology on various identities.	(W) Writing
27811	HISTORY	138	FROM STALIN TO PUTIN	When the Soviet Union ceased to exist, many believed that Russia's history of autocratic rule might finally end. Today Russia under Putin appears to be retreating from democracy. Putin's rule is routinely compared to a dictatorship. The Soviet most notorious dictator, Stalin is being rehabilitated by the Russian establishment. This course traces the history of modern Russian politics from Stalin to Putin and examines how such completely ordinary individuals managed to amass the kind of power that is best described dictatorial. It examines the complex evolution of communist and post-Soviet leadership. The course is comparative and draws on Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy as case studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27811	HISTORY	138	FROM STALIN TO PUTIN	When the Soviet Union ceased to exist, many believed that Russia's history of autocratic rule might finally end. Today Russia under Putin appears to be retreating from democracy. Putin's rule is routinely compared to a dictatorship. The Soviet most notorious dictator, Stalin is being rehabilitated by the Russian establishment. This course traces the history of modern Russian politics from Stalin to Putin and examines how such completely ordinary individuals managed to amass the kind of power that is best described dictatorial. It examines the complex evolution of communist and post-Soviet leadership. The course is comparative and draws on Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy as case studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
27811	RUSSIAN	224	FROM STALIN TO PUTIN	When the Soviet Union ceased to exist, many believed that Russia's history of autocratic rule might finally end. Today Russia under Putin appears to be retreating from democracy. Putin's rule is routinely compared to a dictatorship. The Soviet most notorious dictator, Stalin is being rehabilitated by the Russian establishment. This course traces the history of modern Russian politics from Stalin to Putin and examines how such completely ordinary individuals managed to amass the kind of power that is best described dictatorial. It examines the complex evolution of communist and post-Soviet leadership. The course is comparative and draws on Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy as case studies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27811	RUSSIAN	224	FROM STALIN TO PUTIN	When the Soviet Union ceased to exist, many believed that Russia's history of autocratic rule might finally end. Today Russia under Putin appears to be retreating from democracy. Putin's rule is routinely compared to a dictatorship. The Soviet most notorious dictator, Stalin is being rehabilitated by the Russian establishment. This course traces the history of modern Russian politics from Stalin to Putin and examines how such completely ordinary individuals managed to amass the kind of power that is best described dictatorial. It examines the complex evolution of communist and post-Soviet leadership. The course is comparative and draws on Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy as case studies.	(CZ) Civilizations
27813	CULANTH	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27813	CULANTH	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(R) Research
27813	CULANTH	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(SS) Social Sciences
27813	CULANTH	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27813	ECON	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27813	ECON	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(R) Research
27813	ECON	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(SS) Social Sciences
27813	ECON	273	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27813	PUBPOL	252	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
27813	PUBPOL	252	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(R) Research
27813	PUBPOL	252	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(SS) Social Sciences
27813	PUBPOL	252	AMAZON AND THE CYBERECONOMY	This course will introduce students to the complexities and controversies around the meteoric growth of the digital economy, with a focus on the biggest company of them all, Amazon. We will examine questions that range from labor conditions and consumerism to data harvesting, algorithmic marketing, and monopoly concerns. By drawing on insights from cultural anthropology, economics, history, and other disciplines, the course will give students a new understanding of how e-commerce is changing the structure of our economy, society, and everyday lives. Students will do an individual research project on some aspect of Amazon for a final project.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27854	BIOLOGY	271	MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY	Broad foundational knowledge of marine biology with an emphasis on ecology and evolution of marine organisms. Core areas include biodiversity, adaptations to marine environments, population & community ecology, ecosystem processes and services, and human forcing in marine systems. Survey of biodiversity in marine systems spanning microbes to marine mammals, emphasizing taxonomy, habitats and evolutionary history. Explore how marine communities interact with the physical environment to generate ecosystems and accompanying services spanning coastal/estuarine, blue water, and the deep sea. Examine population dynamics, population interactions and the consequences of those interactions.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27854	MARSCI	202	MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY	Broad foundational knowledge of marine biology with an emphasis on ecology and evolution of marine organisms. Core areas include biodiversity, adaptations to marine environments, population & community ecology, ecosystem processes and services, and human forcing in marine systems. Survey of biodiversity in marine systems spanning microbes to marine mammals, emphasizing taxonomy, habitats and evolutionary history. Explore how marine communities interact with the physical environment to generate ecosystems and accompanying services spanning coastal/estuarine, blue water, and the deep sea. Examine population dynamics, population interactions and the consequences of those interactions.	(NS) Natural Sciences
27862	HLTHPOL	 395T	BASS CONNECTION HEALTH POLICY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to addressing questions related to health policy and innovation. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows and experts from business, government and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
27862	HLTHPOL	 395T	BASS CONNECTION HEALTH POLICY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to addressing questions related to health policy and innovation. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows and experts from business, government and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27862	HLTHPOL	 395T	BASS CONNECTION HEALTH POLICY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to addressing questions related to health policy and innovation. Teams may also include postdoctoral fellows and experts from business, government and the non-profit sector. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
27863	COMPSCI	93	HISTORY OF COMPUTING	Introduction to the history of many diverse devices invented for computation, cryptography, and robotics. These technologies include a wide variety of ingenious devices, including purely mechanical devices, hybrid devices, as well as purely electrical devices. The history includes many fascinating inventors including Babbage and Turing. This history begins in the Greek period and spans many historical periods, to the modern times. By use of models and simulators, students will learn the basics of the operation and programming of various historical mechanical computers, robots and cryptographic devices. Students will do projects on historical devices and/or device inventors.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27863	COMPSCI	93	HISTORY OF COMPUTING	Introduction to the history of many diverse devices invented for computation, cryptography, and robotics. These technologies include a wide variety of ingenious devices, including purely mechanical devices, hybrid devices, as well as purely electrical devices. The history includes many fascinating inventors including Babbage and Turing. This history begins in the Greek period and spans many historical periods, to the modern times. By use of models and simulators, students will learn the basics of the operation and programming of various historical mechanical computers, robots and cryptographic devices. Students will do projects on historical devices and/or device inventors.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
27868	I&E	190	SPECIAL TOPICS IN I&E	Selected topics in innovation & Entrepreneurship.	Topics Course
27880	MATH	219	MULTIVARIABLE CALCULUS	Partial differentiation, multiple integrals, and topics in differential and integral vector calculus, including Green's theorem, the divergence theorem, and Stokes's theorem. Intended for students who have had a course in linear algebra. Not open to students who have taken Mathematics 202, 212, or 222. Prerequisite: Mathematics 218-2, 216, 218, or 221.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27881	COMPSCI	 210D	INTRO TO COMPUTER SYSTEMS	This course provides a programmer's view of how computer systems execute programs and store information. It examines key computational abstraction levels below modern high-level languages; introduction to C, number and data representations, computer memory, assembly language, memory management, the operating-system process model, high-level machine architecture including the memory hierarchy, and introduction to concurrency. Prerequisite: Computer Science 201. Not open to students who have taken Computer Science 250D. Insructor: Lebeck, Chase, Zhou, Fain, Wills	(QS) Quantitative Studies
27883	ENGLISH	286	LEGEND OF KING ARTHUR	The legend of the 'Once and Future King,' Arthur of Camelot, has fascinated poets, artists, writers, and filmmakers. Students will read and view different versions of the Arthur legend, from the earliest surviving sixth-century witness to the legend to modern films. Focusing on the themes of leadership, gender, and love, students will explore how each work understands Arthur and his milieu and the implications of each vision for the political and cultural world in which it originates. Taught in English. No prerequisites.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27883	ENGLISH	286	LEGEND OF KING ARTHUR	The legend of the 'Once and Future King,' Arthur of Camelot, has fascinated poets, artists, writers, and filmmakers. Students will read and view different versions of the Arthur legend, from the earliest surviving sixth-century witness to the legend to modern films. Focusing on the themes of leadership, gender, and love, students will explore how each work understands Arthur and his milieu and the implications of each vision for the political and cultural world in which it originates. Taught in English. No prerequisites.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27883	GERMAN	275	LEGEND OF KING ARTHUR	The legend of the 'Once and Future King,' Arthur of Camelot, has fascinated poets, artists, writers, and filmmakers. Students will read and view different versions of the Arthur legend, from the earliest surviving sixth-century witness to the legend to modern films. Focusing on the themes of leadership, gender, and love, students will explore how each work understands Arthur and his milieu and the implications of each vision for the political and cultural world in which it originates. Taught in English. No prerequisites.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27883	GERMAN	275	LEGEND OF KING ARTHUR	The legend of the 'Once and Future King,' Arthur of Camelot, has fascinated poets, artists, writers, and filmmakers. Students will read and view different versions of the Arthur legend, from the earliest surviving sixth-century witness to the legend to modern films. Focusing on the themes of leadership, gender, and love, students will explore how each work understands Arthur and his milieu and the implications of each vision for the political and cultural world in which it originates. Taught in English. No prerequisites.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27883	MEDREN	315	LEGEND OF KING ARTHUR	The legend of the 'Once and Future King,' Arthur of Camelot, has fascinated poets, artists, writers, and filmmakers. Students will read and view different versions of the Arthur legend, from the earliest surviving sixth-century witness to the legend to modern films. Focusing on the themes of leadership, gender, and love, students will explore how each work understands Arthur and his milieu and the implications of each vision for the political and cultural world in which it originates. Taught in English. No prerequisites.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
27883	MEDREN	315	LEGEND OF KING ARTHUR	The legend of the 'Once and Future King,' Arthur of Camelot, has fascinated poets, artists, writers, and filmmakers. Students will read and view different versions of the Arthur legend, from the earliest surviving sixth-century witness to the legend to modern films. Focusing on the themes of leadership, gender, and love, students will explore how each work understands Arthur and his milieu and the implications of each vision for the political and cultural world in which it originates. Taught in English. No prerequisites.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
27923	MARSCI	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual readings course or other non-research-based independent course under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic product. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
27926	MARSCI	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic.	(R) Research
27926	MARSCI	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic.	Independent Study
27927	MARSCI	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic.	(R) Research
27927	MARSCI	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic.	Independent Study
27928	MARSCI	 393A	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Taught in Beaufort at Duke Marine Lab.	(R) Research
27928	MARSCI	 393A	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Taught in Beaufort at Duke Marine Lab.	Independent Study
27937	CMAC	491	CMAC INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	Independent Study
27938	CMAC	391	CMAC INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual non-research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	Independent Study
27955	ECS	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Directed reading or individual projects. Term paper required. Open only to qualified students by consent of director of undergraduate studies and supervising instructor.	Independent Study
27958	ECS	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students by consent of director of undergraduate studies and supervising instructor.	(R) Research
27958	ECS	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Open to qualified students by consent of director of undergraduate studies and supervising instructor.	Independent Study
27959	ECS	 393-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See ECS 393. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	(R) Research
27959	ECS	 393-1	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See ECS 393. Open to qualified students with consent of instructor and director of undergraduate studies.	Independent Study
27961	ECS	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Earth and Climate Sciences 393. Open to qualified students by consent of director of undergraduate studies and supervising instructor.	(R) Research
27961	ECS	394	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	See Earth and Climate Sciences 393. Open to qualified students by consent of director of undergraduate studies and supervising instructor.	Independent Study
27978	SWAHILI	203	INTERMEDIATE SWAHILI 1	This course is an intermediate level course designed to further enhance communicative skills, as well as develop an awareness of the cultural diversity of the Swahili-speaking areas of East Africa through Swahili texts. Course taught at University of Virginia, via Zoom. Prerequisite: Swahili 102 or equivalent Swahili language experience.	(CZ) Civilizations
27978	SWAHILI	203	INTERMEDIATE SWAHILI 1	This course is an intermediate level course designed to further enhance communicative skills, as well as develop an awareness of the cultural diversity of the Swahili-speaking areas of East Africa through Swahili texts. Course taught at University of Virginia, via Zoom. Prerequisite: Swahili 102 or equivalent Swahili language experience.	(FL) Foreign Language
27979	MATH	 283S	ADVANCED PROBLEM SOLVING	Students work on challenging mathematics problems and write complete and rigorous proofs. The focus is on preparing for math competitions such as the Putnam. Course may be repeated. Previous math competition experience recommended. Consent of instructor required. Half credit.	Seminar
27991	EDUC	 190FS	FOCUS SPECIAL TOPICS	This will be a special topics course for a Focus class within the Program in Education.	Seminar
27991	EDUC	 190FS	FOCUS SPECIAL TOPICS	This will be a special topics course for a Focus class within the Program in Education.	Topics Course
27992	SWAHILI	101	ELEMENTARY SWAHILI 1	Swahili is spoken by tens of millions of people worldwide, primarily in East and Southern Africa. This course provides an introduction to the basic elements of Swahili language and cultures as well as developing skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing. Course taught at University of Virginia, via Zoom.	(FL) Foreign Language
28020	THEATRST	 350-1	MAINSTAGE ACTING (TOP)	Students analyze, research, rehearse, and produce a theatrical text for public performance under the direction of a Theater Studies faculty or a guest professional. Because this section focuses on acting, students must audition and be cast for a role by the instructor and/or director before enrolling. Consent of instructor required. Topic vary per semester. This course may be repeated for credit.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28020	THEATRST	 350-1	MAINSTAGE ACTING (TOP)	Students analyze, research, rehearse, and produce a theatrical text for public performance under the direction of a Theater Studies faculty or a guest professional. Because this section focuses on acting, students must audition and be cast for a role by the instructor and/or director before enrolling. Consent of instructor required. Topic vary per semester. This course may be repeated for credit.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28020	THEATRST	 350-1	MAINSTAGE ACTING (TOP)	Students analyze, research, rehearse, and produce a theatrical text for public performance under the direction of a Theater Studies faculty or a guest professional. Because this section focuses on acting, students must audition and be cast for a role by the instructor and/or director before enrolling. Consent of instructor required. Topic vary per semester. This course may be repeated for credit.	(R) Research
28029	HLTHPOL	391	HLTHPOL INDEPENDENT STUDY	Supervised reading in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in significant analysis and interpretation, or an academic and/or multi-media product.	Independent Study
28054	ECS	 210S	EXPLORING EARTH SCIENCES	Exploration of key concepts in Earth sciences using field and laboratory techniques. Focus on collecting, analyzing and interpreting observational, geophysical, and geochemical data in order to experience how scientists conduct research to answer fundamental questions about how the Earth works. Modules vary by semester and may include local and global studies of plate tectonics, geological history, groundwater and surface water, geohazards, geophysical imaging of the sub-surface, geochemical chemical analyses, remote sensing studies, and how humans impact these systems. Local fieldwork and optional weekend fieldtrip to Appalachians or NC coast. Pre- or co-requisite: ECS/EOS 101.	(NS) Natural Sciences
28054	ECS	 210S	EXPLORING EARTH SCIENCES	Exploration of key concepts in Earth sciences using field and laboratory techniques. Focus on collecting, analyzing and interpreting observational, geophysical, and geochemical data in order to experience how scientists conduct research to answer fundamental questions about how the Earth works. Modules vary by semester and may include local and global studies of plate tectonics, geological history, groundwater and surface water, geohazards, geophysical imaging of the sub-surface, geochemical chemical analyses, remote sensing studies, and how humans impact these systems. Local fieldwork and optional weekend fieldtrip to Appalachians or NC coast. Pre- or co-requisite: ECS/EOS 101.	(R) Research
28054	ECS	 210S	EXPLORING EARTH SCIENCES	Exploration of key concepts in Earth sciences using field and laboratory techniques. Focus on collecting, analyzing and interpreting observational, geophysical, and geochemical data in order to experience how scientists conduct research to answer fundamental questions about how the Earth works. Modules vary by semester and may include local and global studies of plate tectonics, geological history, groundwater and surface water, geohazards, geophysical imaging of the sub-surface, geochemical chemical analyses, remote sensing studies, and how humans impact these systems. Local fieldwork and optional weekend fieldtrip to Appalachians or NC coast. Pre- or co-requisite: ECS/EOS 101.	Seminar
28054	EOS	 210S	EXPLORING EARTH SCIENCES	Exploration of key concepts in Earth sciences using field and laboratory techniques. Focus on collecting, analyzing and interpreting observational, geophysical, and geochemical data in order to experience how scientists conduct research to answer fundamental questions about how the Earth works. Modules vary by semester and may include local and global studies of plate tectonics, geological history, groundwater and surface water, geohazards, geophysical imaging of the sub-surface, geochemical chemical analyses, remote sensing studies, and how humans impact these systems. Local fieldwork and optional weekend fieldtrip to Appalachians or NC coast. Pre- or co-requisite: ECS/EOS 101.	(NS) Natural Sciences
28054	EOS	 210S	EXPLORING EARTH SCIENCES	Exploration of key concepts in Earth sciences using field and laboratory techniques. Focus on collecting, analyzing and interpreting observational, geophysical, and geochemical data in order to experience how scientists conduct research to answer fundamental questions about how the Earth works. Modules vary by semester and may include local and global studies of plate tectonics, geological history, groundwater and surface water, geohazards, geophysical imaging of the sub-surface, geochemical chemical analyses, remote sensing studies, and how humans impact these systems. Local fieldwork and optional weekend fieldtrip to Appalachians or NC coast. Pre- or co-requisite: ECS/EOS 101.	(R) Research
28054	EOS	 210S	EXPLORING EARTH SCIENCES	Exploration of key concepts in Earth sciences using field and laboratory techniques. Focus on collecting, analyzing and interpreting observational, geophysical, and geochemical data in order to experience how scientists conduct research to answer fundamental questions about how the Earth works. Modules vary by semester and may include local and global studies of plate tectonics, geological history, groundwater and surface water, geohazards, geophysical imaging of the sub-surface, geochemical chemical analyses, remote sensing studies, and how humans impact these systems. Local fieldwork and optional weekend fieldtrip to Appalachians or NC coast. Pre- or co-requisite: ECS/EOS 101.	Seminar
28074	AADS	198	INTRO TO ASIAN AMERICAN HIST	An introduction to the historical experiences of the diverse communities of Asian America, from the mid-19th century to the early 21st century. Topics will include migration, immigration law, experiences of war, community formation, and political activism. Students will also gain experience working with primary sources.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28074	AADS	198	INTRO TO ASIAN AMERICAN HIST	An introduction to the historical experiences of the diverse communities of Asian America, from the mid-19th century to the early 21st century. Topics will include migration, immigration law, experiences of war, community formation, and political activism. Students will also gain experience working with primary sources.	(CZ) Civilizations
28074	HISTORY	198	INTRO TO ASIAN AMERICAN HIST	An introduction to the historical experiences of the diverse communities of Asian America, from the mid-19th century to the early 21st century. Topics will include migration, immigration law, experiences of war, community formation, and political activism. Students will also gain experience working with primary sources.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28074	HISTORY	198	INTRO TO ASIAN AMERICAN HIST	An introduction to the historical experiences of the diverse communities of Asian America, from the mid-19th century to the early 21st century. Topics will include migration, immigration law, experiences of war, community formation, and political activism. Students will also gain experience working with primary sources.	(CZ) Civilizations
28083	ISS	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	(R) Research
28083	ISS	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	Independent Study
28147	THEATRST	 380S-2	PLAYMAKING FOR ACTORS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, students collaborate with students in the companion section (Playmaking for Writers) to explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing as actors and directors. Semester ends with public presentation of the work that's been written and brought to life on stage by the class. Prerequisites: THEATRST 145S or THEATRST 255S.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28147	THEATRST	 380S-2	PLAYMAKING FOR ACTORS	Dramatic writing for stage, screen or film is not meant to be read, like a novel or poem, it's meant to be performed. In this class, students collaborate with students in the companion section (Playmaking for Writers) to explore the 'liveness' of dramatic writing as actors and directors. Semester ends with public presentation of the work that's been written and brought to life on stage by the class. Prerequisites: THEATRST 145S or THEATRST 255S.	Seminar
28182	CMAC	291	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	Independent Study
28186	CMAC	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	(R) Research
28186	CMAC	493	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	Independent Study
28191	CMAC	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	(R) Research
28191	CMAC	293	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	Independent Study
28194	RELIGION	 186S	RELIGION & HUMOR	Why is so much humor about religion? This course will explore that question in a variety of ways by considering the social and psychological dynamics of humor in relation to the ritual practices and beliefs of several major religions.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28194	RELIGION	 186S	RELIGION & HUMOR	Why is so much humor about religion? This course will explore that question in a variety of ways by considering the social and psychological dynamics of humor in relation to the ritual practices and beliefs of several major religions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28194	RELIGION	 186S	RELIGION & HUMOR	Why is so much humor about religion? This course will explore that question in a variety of ways by considering the social and psychological dynamics of humor in relation to the ritual practices and beliefs of several major religions.	Seminar
28200	GERMAN	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28200	GERMAN	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28200	GERMAN	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(R) Research
28200	GERMAN	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	Seminar
28200	ICS	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28200	ICS	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28200	ICS	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(R) Research
28200	ICS	 375S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	Seminar
28200	LIT	 366S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28200	LIT	 366S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28200	LIT	 366S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	(R) Research
28200	LIT	 366S	ART AND ACTIVISM	Discussion-based seminar and survey of the literature of manifestos and their role in revolutionary and avant-garde traditions of thought from the mid-19th century to the present. Topics covered include: connections between literary forms and political activism; history of modern revolutionary movements and their impacts on intellectual and artistic production; contemporary developments in manifesto writing in a global context. Sample movements include Communism, Surrealism, Anti-Fascism, Black Power, Feminism, Environmentalism. Final project: students undertake an independent research project and write their own manifestos on a topic of their choosing. Taught entirely in English.	Seminar
28213	CULANTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28213	CULANTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(SS) Social Sciences
28213	CULANTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28213	CULANTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	Seminar
28213	GLHLTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28213	GLHLTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(SS) Social Sciences
28213	GLHLTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28213	GLHLTH	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	Seminar
28213	ICS	 273S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28213	ICS	 273S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(SS) Social Sciences
28213	ICS	 273S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28213	ICS	 273S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	Seminar
28213	PSY	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28213	PSY	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(SS) Social Sciences
28213	PSY	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28213	PSY	 267S	CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH	This course examines the social and cultural facets of mental illness, psychological diagnoses, and mental health from the standpoints of cultural psychiatry, medical anthropology, and social medicine. Global case studies will form the basis for several key questions: how do mental distress and forms of treatment differ cross-culturally? How might social differences such as gender, sexuality, and race shape therapeutic encounters in mental health? And what roles do psychology, psychiatry, and the brain sciences play in everyday life?	Seminar
28222	CLST	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28222	CLST	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
28222	CLST	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(R) Research
28222	ETHICS	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28222	ETHICS	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
28222	ETHICS	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(R) Research
28222	PHIL	214	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28222	PHIL	214	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
28222	PHIL	214	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(R) Research
28222	PUBPOL	229	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28222	PUBPOL	229	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
28222	PUBPOL	229	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(R) Research
28222	RELIGION	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28222	RELIGION	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
28222	RELIGION	210	THE GOOD LIFE	What does it look like for a human life to go well? What leads to human flourishing or 'happiness' or 'success'? What is freedom? Love? Justice? What is the basis for ethics? What is our relationship to the natural world? What is the significance of death? How do our beliefs (or lack thereof) about God or the gods shape how we view the world? We will examine how philosophical or religious traditions around the globe have answered life's biggest questions. Traditions may include Confucianism, Islam, Christianity, Stoicism, Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, scientific naturalism, expressive individualism, and utilitarianism. Part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(R) Research
28246	ARTS&SCI	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	(R) Research
28246	ARTS&SCI	494	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research in a field of special interest under the supervision of a faculty member, the central goal of which is a substantive paper or written report containing significant analysis and interpretation of a previously approved topic. Consent of instructor required.	Independent Study
28291	CMAC	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN CMAC	Special Topics vary by semester.	Seminar
28291	CMAC	 390S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN CMAC	Special Topics vary by semester.	Topics Course
28292	ENVIRON	 269T-4	VOICES IN THE ENVIRONM: GERMAN	In this course, students will explore how language and culture impact environmental policy and practice. Through authentic text, video, and case studies in German, students will analyze environmental issues in Germany to develop their understanding of core issues in the field. Tutorials meet for 75 minutes/week. Taught in German. Prerequisite: 4 semesters of German or equivalent.	Tutorial
28292	GERMAN	 272T	VOICES IN THE ENVIRONM: GERMAN	In this course, students will explore how language and culture impact environmental policy and practice. Through authentic text, video, and case studies in German, students will analyze environmental issues in Germany to develop their understanding of core issues in the field. Tutorials meet for 75 minutes/week. Taught in German. Prerequisite: 4 semesters of German or equivalent.	Tutorial
28352	CULANTH	 309S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28352	CULANTH	 309S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CZ) Civilizations
28352	CULANTH	 309S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(FL) Foreign Language
28352	CULANTH	 309S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(W) Writing
28352	CULANTH	 309S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	Seminar
28352	FRENCH	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28352	FRENCH	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CZ) Civilizations
28352	FRENCH	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(FL) Foreign Language
28352	FRENCH	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(W) Writing
28352	FRENCH	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	Seminar
28352	ICS	 321S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28352	ICS	 321S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CZ) Civilizations
28352	ICS	 321S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(FL) Foreign Language
28352	ICS	 321S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(W) Writing
28352	ICS	 321S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	Seminar
28352	LIT	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28352	LIT	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(CZ) Civilizations
28352	LIT	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(FL) Foreign Language
28352	LIT	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	(W) Writing
28352	LIT	 308S	MANGER:FOODWAYS & FOOD SYSTEMS	This course seeks to deepen our understanding of foodways and food systems, and of the roles that nourishment and nourishers play in our lives, while regenerating connections with food practices and food creators through the study of global French narratives, scholarships on foodways and foodscapes, and hands-on, in-person experiences with nourishers in our local community. A strong emphasis on experiential learning, including community engagement in systems of food access and production as well as work with chefs and farmers, and the study of French-language narrative, culinary, scholarly, journalistic writing, and other cultural documents.	Seminar
28360	SCISOC	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN SCISOC	Special Topics for Focus Cluster Opportunities in Science and Society	Seminar
28360	SCISOC	 190FS	SPECIAL TOPICS IN SCISOC	Special Topics for Focus Cluster Opportunities in Science and Society	Topics Course
28362	AADS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN AADS	Topics vary by semester	Seminar
28362	AADS	 290S	SPECIAL TOPICS IN AADS	Topics vary by semester	Topics Course
28371	GSF	 383S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28371	GSF	 383S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28371	GSF	 383S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	Seminar
28371	LIT	 383S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28371	LIT	 383S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28371	LIT	 383S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	Seminar
28371	PSY	 283S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28371	PSY	 283S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28371	PSY	 283S	BREAKDOWN: MADNESS & LIT	Study of madness, mental illness, and psychological distress as experienced and accounted for from literary and philosophical perspectives. How should an individual's declaration of spiritual health or illness by understood? What critical tools can literature bring to the study of the soul's suffering? Focus on testimonies of mental strife in a transnational/historical frame. Literary selections range from romanticism and realism to high modernism and contemporary neurofiction.	Seminar
28399	ECON	 225S	LIBERALISM AND ITS CRITICS	Examines development of liberalism within political philosophy and economics, and alternatives as articulated by conservative, progressive and socialist critics. Course examines doctrines themselves and place within historical context in which they emerged. Liberal tradition represented by such thinkers as Locke, Hume, Smith, Paine, Constant, J. S. Mill, Hayek and Friedman. Conservative critics will include such writers as Burke, de Maistre, Papal Encyclicals, Carlyle, Meyer, Kirk, Scruton, and Deneen. Socialist and progressive critics will include Saint Simon, Marx and Engels, Sidney and Beatrice Webb, Veblen, Lange, Laski, and Marcuse. Course is part of 'Transformative Ideas' curriculum.	(CZ) Civilizations
28399	ECON	 225S	LIBERALISM AND ITS CRITICS	Examines development of liberalism within political philosophy and economics, and alternatives as articulated by conservative, progressive and socialist critics. Course examines doctrines themselves and place within historical context in which they emerged. Liberal tradition represented by such thinkers as Locke, Hume, Smith, Paine, Constant, J. S. Mill, Hayek and Friedman. Conservative critics will include such writers as Burke, de Maistre, Papal Encyclicals, Carlyle, Meyer, Kirk, Scruton, and Deneen. Socialist and progressive critics will include Saint Simon, Marx and Engels, Sidney and Beatrice Webb, Veblen, Lange, Laski, and Marcuse. Course is part of 'Transformative Ideas' curriculum.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28399	ECON	 225S	LIBERALISM AND ITS CRITICS	Examines development of liberalism within political philosophy and economics, and alternatives as articulated by conservative, progressive and socialist critics. Course examines doctrines themselves and place within historical context in which they emerged. Liberal tradition represented by such thinkers as Locke, Hume, Smith, Paine, Constant, J. S. Mill, Hayek and Friedman. Conservative critics will include such writers as Burke, de Maistre, Papal Encyclicals, Carlyle, Meyer, Kirk, Scruton, and Deneen. Socialist and progressive critics will include Saint Simon, Marx and Engels, Sidney and Beatrice Webb, Veblen, Lange, Laski, and Marcuse. Course is part of 'Transformative Ideas' curriculum.	Seminar
28399	POLSCI	 247S	LIBERALISM AND ITS CRITICS	Examines development of liberalism within political philosophy and economics, and alternatives as articulated by conservative, progressive and socialist critics. Course examines doctrines themselves and place within historical context in which they emerged. Liberal tradition represented by such thinkers as Locke, Hume, Smith, Paine, Constant, J. S. Mill, Hayek and Friedman. Conservative critics will include such writers as Burke, de Maistre, Papal Encyclicals, Carlyle, Meyer, Kirk, Scruton, and Deneen. Socialist and progressive critics will include Saint Simon, Marx and Engels, Sidney and Beatrice Webb, Veblen, Lange, Laski, and Marcuse. Course is part of 'Transformative Ideas' curriculum.	(CZ) Civilizations
28399	POLSCI	 247S	LIBERALISM AND ITS CRITICS	Examines development of liberalism within political philosophy and economics, and alternatives as articulated by conservative, progressive and socialist critics. Course examines doctrines themselves and place within historical context in which they emerged. Liberal tradition represented by such thinkers as Locke, Hume, Smith, Paine, Constant, J. S. Mill, Hayek and Friedman. Conservative critics will include such writers as Burke, de Maistre, Papal Encyclicals, Carlyle, Meyer, Kirk, Scruton, and Deneen. Socialist and progressive critics will include Saint Simon, Marx and Engels, Sidney and Beatrice Webb, Veblen, Lange, Laski, and Marcuse. Course is part of 'Transformative Ideas' curriculum.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28399	POLSCI	 247S	LIBERALISM AND ITS CRITICS	Examines development of liberalism within political philosophy and economics, and alternatives as articulated by conservative, progressive and socialist critics. Course examines doctrines themselves and place within historical context in which they emerged. Liberal tradition represented by such thinkers as Locke, Hume, Smith, Paine, Constant, J. S. Mill, Hayek and Friedman. Conservative critics will include such writers as Burke, de Maistre, Papal Encyclicals, Carlyle, Meyer, Kirk, Scruton, and Deneen. Socialist and progressive critics will include Saint Simon, Marx and Engels, Sidney and Beatrice Webb, Veblen, Lange, Laski, and Marcuse. Course is part of 'Transformative Ideas' curriculum.	Seminar
28402	ITALIAN	 370T	ITALIAN TUTORIAL	Dynamic discussion-based course in Italian. Each week, students prepare a brief statement about something they learned, a question relating to Italian culture, society, or literature, and reflect on a relevant Italian vocabulary word related to their course material. They discuss how the varied materials form a broader picture of Italian culture and society, while improving their spoken Italian. Course counts toward the Italian major or minor when taken concurrently with a related course. May be repeated. Recommended prerequisite: Knowledge of Italian and concurrent enrollment in a course taught in English by an Italian department professor.	Tutorial
28407	FRENCH	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28407	FRENCH	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(CZ) Civilizations
28407	FRENCH	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(FL) Foreign Language
28407	FRENCH	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(R) Research
28407	FRENCH	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(W) Writing
28407	FRENCH	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	Seminar
28407	MUSIC	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28407	MUSIC	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(CZ) Civilizations
28407	MUSIC	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(FL) Foreign Language
28407	MUSIC	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(R) Research
28407	MUSIC	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	(W) Writing
28407	MUSIC	 366S	VERSAILLES AND THE ARTS	Taught in French, this course examines the political, cultural, and artistic history of Versailles in the 17th and 18th centuries, emphasizing its role in the history of music. It analyzes the ways in which the Sun-King achieved the unification and centralization of the French nation through certain artistic politics which likewise set the scene for musical institutions. This seminar therefore seeks to investigate how these artists' creations articulated evolving ideas around the court, the monarchy, the State, and the private and public spheres, while exploring their resonances in present art and literature.	Seminar
28412	AAAS	188	BLACK MUSIC IN THE USA	This course traces the deep and pervasive impact African Americans have had on music in the United States. Musicians include Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, James Brown, Aretha Franklin, John Coltrane, Marian Anderson, Sam Cooke, Olly Wilson, Duke Ellington, Florence Price, William Grant Still, Alicia Keys, Kirk Franklin, and Megan Thee Stallion. The course demonstrates musical, cultural and political connections between these different streams of music and American society. Students will discover the myriad ways that the very soul of America has been conditioned by the practices of Black music.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28412	AAAS	188	BLACK MUSIC IN THE USA	This course traces the deep and pervasive impact African Americans have had on music in the United States. Musicians include Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, James Brown, Aretha Franklin, John Coltrane, Marian Anderson, Sam Cooke, Olly Wilson, Duke Ellington, Florence Price, William Grant Still, Alicia Keys, Kirk Franklin, and Megan Thee Stallion. The course demonstrates musical, cultural and political connections between these different streams of music and American society. Students will discover the myriad ways that the very soul of America has been conditioned by the practices of Black music.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28412	AAAS	188	BLACK MUSIC IN THE USA	This course traces the deep and pervasive impact African Americans have had on music in the United States. Musicians include Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, James Brown, Aretha Franklin, John Coltrane, Marian Anderson, Sam Cooke, Olly Wilson, Duke Ellington, Florence Price, William Grant Still, Alicia Keys, Kirk Franklin, and Megan Thee Stallion. The course demonstrates musical, cultural and political connections between these different streams of music and American society. Students will discover the myriad ways that the very soul of America has been conditioned by the practices of Black music.	(CZ) Civilizations
28412	MUSIC	147	BLACK MUSIC IN THE USA	This course traces the deep and pervasive impact African Americans have had on music in the United States. Musicians include Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, James Brown, Aretha Franklin, John Coltrane, Marian Anderson, Sam Cooke, Olly Wilson, Duke Ellington, Florence Price, William Grant Still, Alicia Keys, Kirk Franklin, and Megan Thee Stallion. The course demonstrates musical, cultural and political connections between these different streams of music and American society. Students will discover the myriad ways that the very soul of America has been conditioned by the practices of Black music.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28412	MUSIC	147	BLACK MUSIC IN THE USA	This course traces the deep and pervasive impact African Americans have had on music in the United States. Musicians include Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, James Brown, Aretha Franklin, John Coltrane, Marian Anderson, Sam Cooke, Olly Wilson, Duke Ellington, Florence Price, William Grant Still, Alicia Keys, Kirk Franklin, and Megan Thee Stallion. The course demonstrates musical, cultural and political connections between these different streams of music and American society. Students will discover the myriad ways that the very soul of America has been conditioned by the practices of Black music.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28412	MUSIC	147	BLACK MUSIC IN THE USA	This course traces the deep and pervasive impact African Americans have had on music in the United States. Musicians include Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, James Brown, Aretha Franklin, John Coltrane, Marian Anderson, Sam Cooke, Olly Wilson, Duke Ellington, Florence Price, William Grant Still, Alicia Keys, Kirk Franklin, and Megan Thee Stallion. The course demonstrates musical, cultural and political connections between these different streams of music and American society. Students will discover the myriad ways that the very soul of America has been conditioned by the practices of Black music.	(CZ) Civilizations
28416	ISS	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28416	ISS	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	(SS) Social Sciences
28416	ISS	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28416	ISS	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	Seminar
28416	LIT	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28416	LIT	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	(SS) Social Sciences
28416	LIT	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28416	LIT	 304S	INTRO TO DIGITAL CULTURE	What is digital culture today? In the first two decades of the 00s, digital culture has become more directly related to the emergence of social media platforms (from Youtube to Instagram, from Snapchat to Tiktok). Digital culture is now shaped by artificial intelligence. We make new friends through dating apps and by becoming followers. We know that biases of race, class, gender and sexuality are embedded in everyday search algorithms. This course welcomes students to participate in these emerging discussions and experiment with new ideas that are shaping digital culture today.	Seminar
28419	RACESOC	 395T	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Teams often work with external experts and partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
28419	RACESOC	 395T	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Teams often work with external experts and partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an on-going research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
28420	MUSIC	 240S	COMPOSERS OF INFLUENCE	In the history of the arts, certain individuals have exerted an enormous influence on the trajectory of their art form. Specific composers during different style periods have been profoundly influential on their art and culture, transforming the ways music is made and perceived. This course examines the influence of Bach, Beethoven, Wagner and Stravinsky on their own time periods and subsequent generations of musicians and artists. Part of the 'Transformative Ideas' program.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28420	MUSIC	 240S	COMPOSERS OF INFLUENCE	In the history of the arts, certain individuals have exerted an enormous influence on the trajectory of their art form. Specific composers during different style periods have been profoundly influential on their art and culture, transforming the ways music is made and perceived. This course examines the influence of Bach, Beethoven, Wagner and Stravinsky on their own time periods and subsequent generations of musicians and artists. Part of the 'Transformative Ideas' program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28420	MUSIC	 240S	COMPOSERS OF INFLUENCE	In the history of the arts, certain individuals have exerted an enormous influence on the trajectory of their art form. Specific composers during different style periods have been profoundly influential on their art and culture, transforming the ways music is made and perceived. This course examines the influence of Bach, Beethoven, Wagner and Stravinsky on their own time periods and subsequent generations of musicians and artists. Part of the 'Transformative Ideas' program.	Seminar
28438	CMAC	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	(R) Research
28438	CMAC	393	RESEARCH INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual research directed study in a field of special interest on a previously approved topic, under the supervision of a faculty member, resulting in an academic and/or artistic product.	Independent Study
28444	PSY	 197FS	ADDICTION AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE	The major goal of the course is to develop scientific, clinical, and social perspectives on the issue of addiction and substance abuse disorders. Students will be able to develop a scientific perspective on the etiology of addiction and effects of social factors such as disease pandemic in its manifestation. We will explore the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on substance abuse and mental health. We will also address the positive and negative aspects of legalization of marijuana. Be ready for an exciting scientific debate.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28444	PSY	 197FS	ADDICTION AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE	The major goal of the course is to develop scientific, clinical, and social perspectives on the issue of addiction and substance abuse disorders. Students will be able to develop a scientific perspective on the etiology of addiction and effects of social factors such as disease pandemic in its manifestation. We will explore the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on substance abuse and mental health. We will also address the positive and negative aspects of legalization of marijuana. Be ready for an exciting scientific debate.	(NS) Natural Sciences
28444	PSY	 197FS	ADDICTION AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE	The major goal of the course is to develop scientific, clinical, and social perspectives on the issue of addiction and substance abuse disorders. Students will be able to develop a scientific perspective on the etiology of addiction and effects of social factors such as disease pandemic in its manifestation. We will explore the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on substance abuse and mental health. We will also address the positive and negative aspects of legalization of marijuana. Be ready for an exciting scientific debate.	(SS) Social Sciences
28444	PSY	 197FS	ADDICTION AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE	The major goal of the course is to develop scientific, clinical, and social perspectives on the issue of addiction and substance abuse disorders. Students will be able to develop a scientific perspective on the etiology of addiction and effects of social factors such as disease pandemic in its manifestation. We will explore the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on substance abuse and mental health. We will also address the positive and negative aspects of legalization of marijuana. Be ready for an exciting scientific debate.	Seminar
28451	BIOLOGY	 263-1	BIO RESPONSE TO CLIMATE CHANGE	Climate change is happening now. This course will focus on how organisms, populations, and biological communities are expected to respond to climate change. While reading the primary literature, we will discuss evidence for effects of climate change on organisms, how to experimentally test for potential effects of climate change, and the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms that organisms have--or do not have--that enable them to respond to climate change. Non-W version of Biology 263. Not available to students who have taken Biology 263. Recommended prerequisite: Bio 202L or Bio 203L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
28454	CLST	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28454	CLST	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(CZ) Civilizations
28454	CLST	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28454	CLST	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28454	ETHICS	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28454	ETHICS	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(CZ) Civilizations
28454	ETHICS	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28454	ETHICS	214	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28454	GLHLTH	238	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28454	GLHLTH	238	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(CZ) Civilizations
28454	GLHLTH	238	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28454	GLHLTH	238	MEDICINE AND HUMAN FLOURISHING	This course examines the nature, ends, and practice of medicine as it relates to the human condition. How can medicine foster human flourishing and well-beingindividual and socialagainst the experience of injury, pain, and suffering? Beginning with ancient Greece and its Hippocratic corpus, students explore answers to this question within a variety of historical and contemporary contexts. Taught by an interdisciplinary team of scholars that includes medical professionals, the course highlights the importance and professional relevance of posing big questions about personal meaning and human values at stake in the practice of medicine.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28455	DANCE	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28455	DANCE	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(R) Research
28455	DANCE	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(SS) Social Sciences
28455	DANCE	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(W) Writing
28455	DANCE	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	Seminar
28455	MUSIC	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28455	MUSIC	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(R) Research
28455	MUSIC	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(SS) Social Sciences
28455	MUSIC	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(W) Writing
28455	MUSIC	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	Seminar
28455	THEATRST	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28455	THEATRST	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(R) Research
28455	THEATRST	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(SS) Social Sciences
28455	THEATRST	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(W) Writing
28455	THEATRST	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	Seminar
28455	WRITING	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28455	WRITING	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(R) Research
28455	WRITING	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(SS) Social Sciences
28455	WRITING	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	(W) Writing
28455	WRITING	 199FS	KNOWING THROUGH PERFORMANCE	Inquiry into the concept of 'performance' broadly construed; not only as it refers to 'staged' performances, but as social ritual and as self-representation, situated in cultural context. Writing experiments aimed at capturing the ephemerality of live performance, with attention to how meaning is enacted through movement, sound, lighting, rhythm, voice, emotion, and audience interaction. Regular writers' workshops and attendance of theater, dance, and musical performances. Students compose critical reviews and a research project on a performance genre, an artist's approach, or other related topic of their choosing.	Seminar
28456	GLHLTH	 186FS	GLOBAL HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELPMNT	Health systems worldwide all have the same goal: produce health in their population that is equitably distributed. Yet, when examining how different countries set up their health systems, different mechanisms are discovered to accomplish the same goal. Given this diversity of approaches, the answer to the question of 'What are the core elements of an equitable healthcare system AND how do you implement those elements?' can be elusive. This course is offered within the Focus Program as part of the Global Health: Problems and Paradigms cluster. There are no prerequisites and no previous background in health, global health, or health systems is required.	(SS) Social Sciences
28456	GLHLTH	 186FS	GLOBAL HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELPMNT	Health systems worldwide all have the same goal: produce health in their population that is equitably distributed. Yet, when examining how different countries set up their health systems, different mechanisms are discovered to accomplish the same goal. Given this diversity of approaches, the answer to the question of 'What are the core elements of an equitable healthcare system AND how do you implement those elements?' can be elusive. This course is offered within the Focus Program as part of the Global Health: Problems and Paradigms cluster. There are no prerequisites and no previous background in health, global health, or health systems is required.	Seminar
28463	COMPSCI	321	GRAPH-MATRIX ANALYSIS	Undergraduate Level. Introduction to analysis of real-world networks and generated graphs via matrix representation, connection and computation. Graphs and networks are characterized, analyzed and categorized by combinatorial, algebraic and probabilistic measures of connectivity and centrality. Probabilistic graph categories include the small-world network model, the scale-free network model as well as the traditional ErdosRnyi model. Prerequisites: Math 212 or equivalent; Math 216, 218D or 221 or equivalent; CompSci 101L or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
28463	MATH	462	GRAPH-MATRIX ANALYSIS	Undergraduate Level. Introduction to analysis of real-world networks and generated graphs via matrix representation, connection and computation. Graphs and networks are characterized, analyzed and categorized by combinatorial, algebraic and probabilistic measures of connectivity and centrality. Probabilistic graph categories include the small-world network model, the scale-free network model as well as the traditional ErdosRnyi model. Prerequisites: Math 212 or equivalent; Math 216, 218D or 221 or equivalent; CompSci 101L or equivalent.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
28497	CMAC	 390-2	TOPICS IN COMP MEDIA MODULE	This is is a special topics module that will vary by semester. It is a half-unit course.	Topics Course
28508	MUSIC	 163L	LISTENING LAB	How do we perceive the world around us by listening to sound and music? What can we learn about the world and each other when we tune our ears to particular types of sound, or particular musical traditions? This course offers students an immersive listening environment in which they will be exposed to musics from around the world. Students will practice close listening to connect how music and sound interact with race, gender, sexuality, politics, religion, history, and place. Students will practice writing to understand how language can be used to convey sound and music. No prior technical musical knowledge or experience is required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28508	MUSIC	 163L	LISTENING LAB	How do we perceive the world around us by listening to sound and music? What can we learn about the world and each other when we tune our ears to particular types of sound, or particular musical traditions? This course offers students an immersive listening environment in which they will be exposed to musics from around the world. Students will practice close listening to connect how music and sound interact with race, gender, sexuality, politics, religion, history, and place. Students will practice writing to understand how language can be used to convey sound and music. No prior technical musical knowledge or experience is required.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28508	MUSIC	 163L	LISTENING LAB	How do we perceive the world around us by listening to sound and music? What can we learn about the world and each other when we tune our ears to particular types of sound, or particular musical traditions? This course offers students an immersive listening environment in which they will be exposed to musics from around the world. Students will practice close listening to connect how music and sound interact with race, gender, sexuality, politics, religion, history, and place. Students will practice writing to understand how language can be used to convey sound and music. No prior technical musical knowledge or experience is required.	(W) Writing
28510	MARSCI	203	MARINE SOCIAL SCIENCE	Efforts to understand, predict, or manage change in marine systems often fail due to an underappreciation of the tightly coupled relationship between people and the oceans. Correspondingly, identifying sustainable and just solutions to today's major ocean challenges requires an understanding of the values, processes, and systems that shape ocean connections and uses. Through the eyes of social scientists from various disciplines, this course will introduce students to the concepts and approaches social scientists use to understand major ocean sustainability problems (e.g. climate change, food production) and identify sustainable and just solutions to address them.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28510	MARSCI	203	MARINE SOCIAL SCIENCE	Efforts to understand, predict, or manage change in marine systems often fail due to an underappreciation of the tightly coupled relationship between people and the oceans. Correspondingly, identifying sustainable and just solutions to today's major ocean challenges requires an understanding of the values, processes, and systems that shape ocean connections and uses. Through the eyes of social scientists from various disciplines, this course will introduce students to the concepts and approaches social scientists use to understand major ocean sustainability problems (e.g. climate change, food production) and identify sustainable and just solutions to address them.	(SS) Social Sciences
28512	MARSCI	204	INTEGRATIVE OCEANOGRAPHY	The oceans and life within it form complex multidimensional systems. Understanding the dynamics of how marine systems work requires an integrative approach. This course will focus on using first principles, following the flow of energy, carbon, and nutrients, to reveal the mechanisms underlying the structure and function of marine ecosystems. The first half of the course will introduce foundational concepts from physical, chemical, and biological oceanography, while the second half will provide synthetic applications. Recommended prerequisite: Math 111L, Physics 141L, and Chemistry 101DL (or equivalent courses).	(NS) Natural Sciences
28514	CULANTH	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28514	CULANTH	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28514	CULANTH	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(SS) Social Sciences
28514	CULANTH	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	Seminar
28514	ICS	 150S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28514	ICS	 150S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28514	ICS	 150S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(SS) Social Sciences
28514	ICS	 150S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	Seminar
28514	SOCIOL	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28514	SOCIOL	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28514	SOCIOL	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	(SS) Social Sciences
28514	SOCIOL	 151S	SPORTS AND SOCIETY	This course will examine the giant role that sports play in the modern world. It will explore the history of sports in the U.S. and worldwide, and the role of forces like race, gender, mythmaking, economics, and fan cultures in a variation of games from soccer to basketball and football.	Seminar
28517	CULANTH	102	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28517	CULANTH	102	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CZ) Civilizations
28517	CULANTH	102	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(SS) Social Sciences
28517	ICS	120	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28517	ICS	120	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CZ) Civilizations
28517	ICS	120	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(SS) Social Sciences
28517	LIT	103	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28517	LIT	103	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CZ) Civilizations
28517	LIT	103	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(SS) Social Sciences
28517	RIGHTS	123	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28517	RIGHTS	123	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(CZ) Civilizations
28517	RIGHTS	123	AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONS TODAY	This course is an introduction to the tremendous diversity of contemporary American Indian sovereign nations' and their citizens' experiences in the territory now known as the United States. American Indian Nations Today addresses the complexities of contemporary Native Nation topics by providing context for understanding the distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions of Native Nations today. These topics and issues are analyzed from individual, local, and national Native and non-Native perspectives through readings, media, and occasional guest speakers.	(SS) Social Sciences
28519	EDUC	 115FS	CLASSROOM CULTURE	Examine linguistic features that participants in schools throughout America use to negotiate classroom culture. Focus on verbal and nonverbal communication through lens of historical and current primary sources that give voice to a range of American experiences. Analyze discursive moves based in (but not limited to) racial, ethnic, gender, and socioeconomic biases. Consider how teachers and students can collaborate to: (1) develop and build on discourses that respectfully address potentially uncomfortable topics; and (2) foster inclusive classroom communities founded on empathy, critical thinking, active listening, and objectivity. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28519	EDUC	 115FS	CLASSROOM CULTURE	Examine linguistic features that participants in schools throughout America use to negotiate classroom culture. Focus on verbal and nonverbal communication through lens of historical and current primary sources that give voice to a range of American experiences. Analyze discursive moves based in (but not limited to) racial, ethnic, gender, and socioeconomic biases. Consider how teachers and students can collaborate to: (1) develop and build on discourses that respectfully address potentially uncomfortable topics; and (2) foster inclusive classroom communities founded on empathy, critical thinking, active listening, and objectivity. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(SS) Social Sciences
28519	EDUC	 115FS	CLASSROOM CULTURE	Examine linguistic features that participants in schools throughout America use to negotiate classroom culture. Focus on verbal and nonverbal communication through lens of historical and current primary sources that give voice to a range of American experiences. Analyze discursive moves based in (but not limited to) racial, ethnic, gender, and socioeconomic biases. Consider how teachers and students can collaborate to: (1) develop and build on discourses that respectfully address potentially uncomfortable topics; and (2) foster inclusive classroom communities founded on empathy, critical thinking, active listening, and objectivity. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
28541	POLSCI	202	POLITICAL PARTIES	Why is electoral participation organized around parties and not individual candidates? What do parties offer and deliver to voters? How did parties and party systems develop in the United States and Europe in the 19th century and what consequences did this have for the rules of the competitive game (electoral laws)? How have American and European parties changed their political appeals in the twentieth century, and then lately into the twenty-first century? Why have some party systemslike the Americansharply polarized, while otherstypically in Europehave fragmented into a multiplicity of political parties?	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28541	POLSCI	202	POLITICAL PARTIES	Why is electoral participation organized around parties and not individual candidates? What do parties offer and deliver to voters? How did parties and party systems develop in the United States and Europe in the 19th century and what consequences did this have for the rules of the competitive game (electoral laws)? How have American and European parties changed their political appeals in the twentieth century, and then lately into the twenty-first century? Why have some party systemslike the Americansharply polarized, while otherstypically in Europehave fragmented into a multiplicity of political parties?	(SS) Social Sciences
28544	RACESOC	395	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project, independent study. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Projects often involve external experts and partners. Project work may run in parallel with, or contribute to, an on-going research project. Students will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
28544	RACESOC	395	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project, independent study. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Projects often involve external experts and partners. Project work may run in parallel with, or contribute to, an on-going research project. Students will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
28546	GSF	 251FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28546	GSF	 251FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CZ) Civilizations
28546	GSF	 251FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28546	GSF	 251FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	Seminar
28546	ITALIAN	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28546	ITALIAN	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CZ) Civilizations
28546	ITALIAN	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28546	ITALIAN	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	Seminar
28546	MEDREN	 250FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28546	MEDREN	 250FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CZ) Civilizations
28546	MEDREN	 250FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28546	MEDREN	 250FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	Seminar
28546	ROMST	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28546	ROMST	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(CZ) Civilizations
28546	ROMST	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28546	ROMST	 208FS	GENDERING THE RENAISSANCE	Course studies the debates around women, gender, and sexuality in Renaissance Italy and Europe (ca.14001700). Framed historically as 'the woman question' (la querelle des femmes), these debates challenged women's nature, capabilities, and intellect, sparking robust response by women poets and philosophers, as well as by male defenders of the female sex. An interdisciplinary approach studying how gendered expectations for Renaissance women and men emerged across lyric poetry, conduct manuals, medical treatises, political pamphlets, paintings, theater, and early opera. We will contextualize early examples of premodern feminism, anti-feminism, misogyny, and prejudice compared to models today.	Seminar
28579	UNIV	102	LETS TALK ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE	How we speak shapes how we think and act. This course examines how the natural and social sciences, and the humanities and the fine arts, equip people to speak about, analyze and evaluate the many ways climate change is affecting our world today. It gives students the philosophical tools they need to imagine and implement a more just and hopeful future. No prerequisites required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28579	UNIV	102	LETS TALK ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE	How we speak shapes how we think and act. This course examines how the natural and social sciences, and the humanities and the fine arts, equip people to speak about, analyze and evaluate the many ways climate change is affecting our world today. It gives students the philosophical tools they need to imagine and implement a more just and hopeful future. No prerequisites required.	(NS) Natural Sciences
28579	UNIV	102	LETS TALK ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE	How we speak shapes how we think and act. This course examines how the natural and social sciences, and the humanities and the fine arts, equip people to speak about, analyze and evaluate the many ways climate change is affecting our world today. It gives students the philosophical tools they need to imagine and implement a more just and hopeful future. No prerequisites required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
28621	SCISOC	  89S	FYS TOPICS IN SCISOC	First Year Seminar Topics in Science and Society	Seminar
28621	SCISOC	  89S	FYS TOPICS IN SCISOC	First Year Seminar Topics in Science and Society	Topics Course
28625	DOCST	 190FS	FOCUS PROGRAM TOPICS IN DOCST	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Topics vary each semester offered.	Seminar
28625	DOCST	 190FS	FOCUS PROGRAM TOPICS IN DOCST	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Topics vary each semester offered.	Topics Course
28653	AMES	146	KOREAN POPULAR MUSIC (K-POP)	This course investigates the history, production, reception, and circulation of Korean popular music (K-pop). The course is designed in three modules: the first module offers a critical overview of the history of Korean popular music from 1900 to the present; the second module focuses on the political economy of K-pop; the third module investigates various social issues concerning K-pop, including gender politics, cultural appropriation, visual and aural aesthetics, fandom culture, use of technology, etc. Students will engage with both scholarly articles and popular sources, as well as music videos and albums. Knowledge of the Korean language can be helpful but is not required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28653	AMES	146	KOREAN POPULAR MUSIC (K-POP)	This course investigates the history, production, reception, and circulation of Korean popular music (K-pop). The course is designed in three modules: the first module offers a critical overview of the history of Korean popular music from 1900 to the present; the second module focuses on the political economy of K-pop; the third module investigates various social issues concerning K-pop, including gender politics, cultural appropriation, visual and aural aesthetics, fandom culture, use of technology, etc. Students will engage with both scholarly articles and popular sources, as well as music videos and albums. Knowledge of the Korean language can be helpful but is not required.	(CZ) Civilizations
28653	AMES	146	KOREAN POPULAR MUSIC (K-POP)	This course investigates the history, production, reception, and circulation of Korean popular music (K-pop). The course is designed in three modules: the first module offers a critical overview of the history of Korean popular music from 1900 to the present; the second module focuses on the political economy of K-pop; the third module investigates various social issues concerning K-pop, including gender politics, cultural appropriation, visual and aural aesthetics, fandom culture, use of technology, etc. Students will engage with both scholarly articles and popular sources, as well as music videos and albums. Knowledge of the Korean language can be helpful but is not required.	(R) Research
28653	MUSIC	148	KOREAN POPULAR MUSIC (K-POP)	This course investigates the history, production, reception, and circulation of Korean popular music (K-pop). The course is designed in three modules: the first module offers a critical overview of the history of Korean popular music from 1900 to the present; the second module focuses on the political economy of K-pop; the third module investigates various social issues concerning K-pop, including gender politics, cultural appropriation, visual and aural aesthetics, fandom culture, use of technology, etc. Students will engage with both scholarly articles and popular sources, as well as music videos and albums. Knowledge of the Korean language can be helpful but is not required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28653	MUSIC	148	KOREAN POPULAR MUSIC (K-POP)	This course investigates the history, production, reception, and circulation of Korean popular music (K-pop). The course is designed in three modules: the first module offers a critical overview of the history of Korean popular music from 1900 to the present; the second module focuses on the political economy of K-pop; the third module investigates various social issues concerning K-pop, including gender politics, cultural appropriation, visual and aural aesthetics, fandom culture, use of technology, etc. Students will engage with both scholarly articles and popular sources, as well as music videos and albums. Knowledge of the Korean language can be helpful but is not required.	(CZ) Civilizations
28653	MUSIC	148	KOREAN POPULAR MUSIC (K-POP)	This course investigates the history, production, reception, and circulation of Korean popular music (K-pop). The course is designed in three modules: the first module offers a critical overview of the history of Korean popular music from 1900 to the present; the second module focuses on the political economy of K-pop; the third module investigates various social issues concerning K-pop, including gender politics, cultural appropriation, visual and aural aesthetics, fandom culture, use of technology, etc. Students will engage with both scholarly articles and popular sources, as well as music videos and albums. Knowledge of the Korean language can be helpful but is not required.	(R) Research
28659	AADS	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28659	AADS	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(CZ) Civilizations
28659	AADS	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28659	AADS	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(W) Writing
28659	AADS	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	Seminar
28659	GSF	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28659	GSF	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(CZ) Civilizations
28659	GSF	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28659	GSF	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	(W) Writing
28659	GSF	 382S	INTIMACIES	A deep dive into the theoretical concept of intimacy, this seminar touches upon the racial, sensorial, and sexual life of nations and the state. Through discussions about citizenship, religion, migration, political economy, belonging, community, and activism, we consider what it means for bodies to exist in relation not only to other bodies, but also within the larger body of the nation-state. We examine theoretical writing alongside film, performance and installation art, law, and pop culture, bringing sexuality to bear on indigenous genocide, the Antebellum South, anti-immigration and miscegenation law, US militarism in Asia and the Pacific, LGBTQ rights, and political scandal.	Seminar
28670	FRENCH	391	INDEPENDENT STUDY	Individual study in a field of special interest, under the supervision of a faculty member, focusing on scholarship examining the literary, cultural, historical, and sociolinguistic fields of inquiry. The independent study draws heavily on primary and secondary readings, resulting in a substantive, well-written paper or similar final product. Consent of instructor and Director of Undergraduate Studies required.	Independent Study
28722	BRAINSOC	495	BRAIN & SOCIETY INDEP STUDY	Bass Connections Research Independent Study. Topics vary by semester and section. Student enrolled will work with faculty mentor to investigate intersections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics and law. Work may also engage the team's external partners. Student enrolled will contribute to teamwork, but otherwise function independently in data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and/or other relevant research activities. Requires end-of-term paper or scholarly product containing significant analysis and interpretation.	(R) Research
28722	BRAINSOC	495	BRAIN & SOCIETY INDEP STUDY	Bass Connections Research Independent Study. Topics vary by semester and section. Student enrolled will work with faculty mentor to investigate intersections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics and law. Work may also engage the team's external partners. Student enrolled will contribute to teamwork, but otherwise function independently in data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and/or other relevant research activities. Requires end-of-term paper or scholarly product containing significant analysis and interpretation.	Independent Study
28723	BRAINSOC	 393T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Interdisciplinary teams of students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions rooted in policy, economics, ethics, law, the humanities and/or healthcare. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may parallel or contribute to ongoing faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning, research or service experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation.	(R) Research
28723	BRAINSOC	 393T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Interdisciplinary teams of students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions rooted in policy, economics, ethics, law, the humanities and/or healthcare. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may parallel or contribute to ongoing faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning, research or service experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation.	(SS) Social Sciences
28723	BRAINSOC	 393T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Interdisciplinary teams of students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions rooted in policy, economics, ethics, law, the humanities and/or healthcare. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may parallel or contribute to ongoing faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning, research or service experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation.	Tutorial
28732	MALAGASY	101	ELEMENTARY MALAGASY I	This course introduces students to the Malagasy language, which is spoken by 25 million people in Madagascar and the Comoro Islands. This is the first semester of a two-semester sequence, in which students will learn to speak, listen, read, and write basic Malagasy, as well as learn to function appropriately in routine situations in the target culture.	(FL) Foreign Language
28764	LINGUIST	211	COMPUTATION AND LANGUAGE	This course will explore a range of techniques designed to help machines perform tasks involving human language. We will cover both rules-based and machine learning approaches for morphological, syntactic, semantic, co-reference, and discourse processing. We will also touch on issues involved in natural language understanding, such as cognitive and linguistic phenomena and applications that can benefit from natural language processing such as question answering, machine translation, and spoken language understanding.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
28764	LINGUIST	211	COMPUTATION AND LANGUAGE	This course will explore a range of techniques designed to help machines perform tasks involving human language. We will cover both rules-based and machine learning approaches for morphological, syntactic, semantic, co-reference, and discourse processing. We will also touch on issues involved in natural language understanding, such as cognitive and linguistic phenomena and applications that can benefit from natural language processing such as question answering, machine translation, and spoken language understanding.	(SS) Social Sciences
28768	BRAINSOC	496	BRAIN & SOCIETY INDEP STUDY	Bass Connections Research Independent Study. Topics vary by semester and section. Student enrolled will work with faculty mentor to investigate intersections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics and law. Work may also engage the team's external partners. Student enrolled will contribute to teamwork, but otherwise function independently in data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and/or other relevant research activities. Requires end-of-term paper or scholarly product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
28768	BRAINSOC	496	BRAIN & SOCIETY INDEP STUDY	Bass Connections Research Independent Study. Topics vary by semester and section. Student enrolled will work with faculty mentor to investigate intersections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics and law. Work may also engage the team's external partners. Student enrolled will contribute to teamwork, but otherwise function independently in data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and/or other relevant research activities. Requires end-of-term paper or scholarly product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Independent Study
28769	BRAINSOC	 394T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Interdisciplinary teams of students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions rooted in policy, economics, ethics, law, the humanities and/or healthcare. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may parallel or contribute to ongoing faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning, research or service experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(R) Research
28769	BRAINSOC	 394T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Interdisciplinary teams of students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions rooted in policy, economics, ethics, law, the humanities and/or healthcare. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may parallel or contribute to ongoing faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning, research or service experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
28769	BRAINSOC	 394T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Interdisciplinary teams of students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions rooted in policy, economics, ethics, law, the humanities and/or healthcare. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may parallel or contribute to ongoing faculty-initiated research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, field work, and other relevant learning, research or service experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
28790	RELIGION	 204S	NEOPAGANISM AND WITCHCRAFT	Neopaganism and Witchcraft investigate the religious phenomenon loosely called Neopaganism  an inventive mixture of New Age religions, Witchcraft, Druidism, Wicca, Earth Religions, and non-Native American Shamanism. The course focus on practices principally in Europe and the United States for a particular set of reasons. Christianity and its pagan others have played a critical role in the history of modern European and American imagination of the nation-state. Race, religion, and native soil are key aspects of neopaganism's embattled self-concept, particularly in the context of globalization and the perceived menace of multi-ethnic West.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28790	RELIGION	 204S	NEOPAGANISM AND WITCHCRAFT	Neopaganism and Witchcraft investigate the religious phenomenon loosely called Neopaganism  an inventive mixture of New Age religions, Witchcraft, Druidism, Wicca, Earth Religions, and non-Native American Shamanism. The course focus on practices principally in Europe and the United States for a particular set of reasons. Christianity and its pagan others have played a critical role in the history of modern European and American imagination of the nation-state. Race, religion, and native soil are key aspects of neopaganism's embattled self-concept, particularly in the context of globalization and the perceived menace of multi-ethnic West.	(CZ) Civilizations
28790	RELIGION	 204S	NEOPAGANISM AND WITCHCRAFT	Neopaganism and Witchcraft investigate the religious phenomenon loosely called Neopaganism  an inventive mixture of New Age religions, Witchcraft, Druidism, Wicca, Earth Religions, and non-Native American Shamanism. The course focus on practices principally in Europe and the United States for a particular set of reasons. Christianity and its pagan others have played a critical role in the history of modern European and American imagination of the nation-state. Race, religion, and native soil are key aspects of neopaganism's embattled self-concept, particularly in the context of globalization and the perceived menace of multi-ethnic West.	Seminar
28814	AAAS	258	STUDIO POP: HISTORIES/SOUNDS	Pop-music styles as the work of studio production techniques, post-1960s. We explore four influential artists--The Beach Boys ('Pet Sounds' 1966, and later albums); Stevie Wonder ('Music of My Mind' 1971 to 'Songs in the Key of Life' 1976); Steely Dan (albums released 1972-79) and Prince (albums 1977 to 1987). Topics include: history of studio production, multi-track tape innovations, orchestrations, backing vocals, sonic balance, space; synthesizer technology; drum-machine grooves, Close reading of songs, producers, studio styles, press/fan reception. Analysis of music in acoustic, narrative, poetic or structural terms through close listening. Readings from critical literature.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28814	AAAS	258	STUDIO POP: HISTORIES/SOUNDS	Pop-music styles as the work of studio production techniques, post-1960s. We explore four influential artists--The Beach Boys ('Pet Sounds' 1966, and later albums); Stevie Wonder ('Music of My Mind' 1971 to 'Songs in the Key of Life' 1976); Steely Dan (albums released 1972-79) and Prince (albums 1977 to 1987). Topics include: history of studio production, multi-track tape innovations, orchestrations, backing vocals, sonic balance, space; synthesizer technology; drum-machine grooves, Close reading of songs, producers, studio styles, press/fan reception. Analysis of music in acoustic, narrative, poetic or structural terms through close listening. Readings from critical literature.	(W) Writing
28814	MUSIC	241	STUDIO POP: HISTORIES/SOUNDS	Pop-music styles as the work of studio production techniques, post-1960s. We explore four influential artists--The Beach Boys ('Pet Sounds' 1966, and later albums); Stevie Wonder ('Music of My Mind' 1971 to 'Songs in the Key of Life' 1976); Steely Dan (albums released 1972-79) and Prince (albums 1977 to 1987). Topics include: history of studio production, multi-track tape innovations, orchestrations, backing vocals, sonic balance, space; synthesizer technology; drum-machine grooves, Close reading of songs, producers, studio styles, press/fan reception. Analysis of music in acoustic, narrative, poetic or structural terms through close listening. Readings from critical literature.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28814	MUSIC	241	STUDIO POP: HISTORIES/SOUNDS	Pop-music styles as the work of studio production techniques, post-1960s. We explore four influential artists--The Beach Boys ('Pet Sounds' 1966, and later albums); Stevie Wonder ('Music of My Mind' 1971 to 'Songs in the Key of Life' 1976); Steely Dan (albums released 1972-79) and Prince (albums 1977 to 1987). Topics include: history of studio production, multi-track tape innovations, orchestrations, backing vocals, sonic balance, space; synthesizer technology; drum-machine grooves, Close reading of songs, producers, studio styles, press/fan reception. Analysis of music in acoustic, narrative, poetic or structural terms through close listening. Readings from critical literature.	(W) Writing
28875	DOCST	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(CZ) Civilizations
28875	DOCST	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28875	DOCST	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(R) Research
28875	DOCST	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	Seminar
28875	GLHLTH	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(CZ) Civilizations
28875	GLHLTH	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28875	GLHLTH	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(R) Research
28875	GLHLTH	 331S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	Seminar
28875	GSF	 233S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(CZ) Civilizations
28875	GSF	 233S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28875	GSF	 233S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(R) Research
28875	GSF	 233S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	Seminar
28875	PUBPOL	 332S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(CZ) Civilizations
28875	PUBPOL	 332S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28875	PUBPOL	 332S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(R) Research
28875	PUBPOL	 332S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	Seminar
28875	RIGHTS	 337S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(CZ) Civilizations
28875	RIGHTS	 337S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28875	RIGHTS	 337S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	(R) Research
28875	RIGHTS	 337S	US WOMENS HEALTH POST-ROE	The overturning of Roe v. Wade in June 2022 led to the deaths of two women in South Carolina. One woman died from sepsis following self-instrumentation, and the second died after giving birth to a healthy baby. She began to hemorrhage; hospital administrators were afraid that the 'D&C' she needed to survive was too close to the abortion procedure. A physician team at Duke University Hospitals, led by Dr. Beverly Clark, began to see similar cases in North Carolina. The aim of this course is to documentin real timethe political and ethical dimensions of the situation that healthcare providers now find themselves in as they attempt to provide women the nationwide medical 'standard of care.'	Seminar
28878	ECON	 315S	ARGUMENT ACROSS DISCIPLINES	This course provides practice in analyzing and using the conventions of research writing in students' chosen disciplines and hones students' awareness of how these conventions make the advancement of disciplinary knowledge possible. This course will be most useful for students who are considering multiple majors, research-intensive projects or theses, and students who are considering graduate school or any job that will require them to work closely with findings produced by researchers. Prerequisite: Writing 101.	(W) Writing
28878	ECON	 315S	ARGUMENT ACROSS DISCIPLINES	This course provides practice in analyzing and using the conventions of research writing in students' chosen disciplines and hones students' awareness of how these conventions make the advancement of disciplinary knowledge possible. This course will be most useful for students who are considering multiple majors, research-intensive projects or theses, and students who are considering graduate school or any job that will require them to work closely with findings produced by researchers. Prerequisite: Writing 101.	Seminar
28878	EDUC	 315S	ARGUMENT ACROSS DISCIPLINES	This course provides practice in analyzing and using the conventions of research writing in students' chosen disciplines and hones students' awareness of how these conventions make the advancement of disciplinary knowledge possible. This course will be most useful for students who are considering multiple majors, research-intensive projects or theses, and students who are considering graduate school or any job that will require them to work closely with findings produced by researchers. Prerequisite: Writing 101.	(W) Writing
28878	EDUC	 315S	ARGUMENT ACROSS DISCIPLINES	This course provides practice in analyzing and using the conventions of research writing in students' chosen disciplines and hones students' awareness of how these conventions make the advancement of disciplinary knowledge possible. This course will be most useful for students who are considering multiple majors, research-intensive projects or theses, and students who are considering graduate school or any job that will require them to work closely with findings produced by researchers. Prerequisite: Writing 101.	Seminar
28878	WRITING	 315S	ARGUMENT ACROSS DISCIPLINES	This course provides practice in analyzing and using the conventions of research writing in students' chosen disciplines and hones students' awareness of how these conventions make the advancement of disciplinary knowledge possible. This course will be most useful for students who are considering multiple majors, research-intensive projects or theses, and students who are considering graduate school or any job that will require them to work closely with findings produced by researchers. Prerequisite: Writing 101.	(W) Writing
28878	WRITING	 315S	ARGUMENT ACROSS DISCIPLINES	This course provides practice in analyzing and using the conventions of research writing in students' chosen disciplines and hones students' awareness of how these conventions make the advancement of disciplinary knowledge possible. This course will be most useful for students who are considering multiple majors, research-intensive projects or theses, and students who are considering graduate school or any job that will require them to work closely with findings produced by researchers. Prerequisite: Writing 101.	Seminar
28879	CLST	277	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28879	CLST	277	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(CZ) Civilizations
28879	CLST	277	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28879	CLST	277	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(W) Writing
28879	ETHICS	365	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28879	ETHICS	365	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(CZ) Civilizations
28879	ETHICS	365	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28879	ETHICS	365	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(W) Writing
28879	POLSCI	334	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
28879	POLSCI	334	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(CZ) Civilizations
28879	POLSCI	334	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28879	POLSCI	334	HOW TO RULE THE WORLD	From Babylon and Persia to Greece and Rome, empires have risen and fallen, but they always seem to make a comeback. Their defenders point to the stability they bring to a chaotic world. Their detractors point to the harsh rule required to maintain them. This course will explore arguments for and against empire, drawing on history, philosophy, and political theory, with a special focus on the Greeks and Romans. Then, in light of the parallel problems of empire and global governance, we will ask what lessons we can learn for the practice of international affairs today. Contemporary topics will include global institutions, foreign intervention, East Asia policy, and NATO and Eastern Europe.	(W) Writing
28913	EDUC	 267S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28913	EDUC	 267S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28913	EDUC	 267S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	Seminar
28913	THEATRST	 281S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28913	THEATRST	 281S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28913	THEATRST	 281S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	Seminar
28913	WRITING	 267S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
28913	WRITING	 267S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28913	WRITING	 267S	THE DIALOG LABORATORY	Interactive, performance-based course grounded in dialog and discussion. Open-ended components of the course make learning emerge through doing, reflecting, and adjusting to the particularities of the people involved. Strong emphasis on student-built directions and norms. The laboratory approach to the classroom empowers students to decide how dialog skills are used and what goals to pursue individually and collectively. A course for self-directed students seeking sustained adventures into new communicative experiences and sharpened audience adaptation. Instructor feedback and readings provide ample concepts to service students' needs and goals.	Seminar
28939	HISTORY	 189S	SLAVERY AND ITS AFTERLIVES	Examines the history of American slavery and the legacies of slavery in the present. Focus on slavery as a system of labor, law, race, kinship, knowledge, space, culture, property, and reproduction that affected all areas of American development. Considers the role of slavery in political debates about reparations, Confederate monuments, and critical race theory.	(CZ) Civilizations
28939	HISTORY	 189S	SLAVERY AND ITS AFTERLIVES	Examines the history of American slavery and the legacies of slavery in the present. Focus on slavery as a system of labor, law, race, kinship, knowledge, space, culture, property, and reproduction that affected all areas of American development. Considers the role of slavery in political debates about reparations, Confederate monuments, and critical race theory.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
28939	HISTORY	 189S	SLAVERY AND ITS AFTERLIVES	Examines the history of American slavery and the legacies of slavery in the present. Focus on slavery as a system of labor, law, race, kinship, knowledge, space, culture, property, and reproduction that affected all areas of American development. Considers the role of slavery in political debates about reparations, Confederate monuments, and critical race theory.	(R) Research
28939	HISTORY	 189S	SLAVERY AND ITS AFTERLIVES	Examines the history of American slavery and the legacies of slavery in the present. Focus on slavery as a system of labor, law, race, kinship, knowledge, space, culture, property, and reproduction that affected all areas of American development. Considers the role of slavery in political debates about reparations, Confederate monuments, and critical race theory.	(SS) Social Sciences
28939	HISTORY	 189S	SLAVERY AND ITS AFTERLIVES	Examines the history of American slavery and the legacies of slavery in the present. Focus on slavery as a system of labor, law, race, kinship, knowledge, space, culture, property, and reproduction that affected all areas of American development. Considers the role of slavery in political debates about reparations, Confederate monuments, and critical race theory.	Seminar
28940	PUBPOL	 390T	BASS CONNECTIONS SPECIAL TOPIC	Selected Topics. Topics vary. Open to Bass Connections only. Project-based course in which undergraduate and graduate students work collaboratively to produce a significant public-facing research product drawing on analysis from across the social sciences. Topics vary depending on section. Students will gain a conceptual understanding of the project topic, develop research plans, conduct new research, and develop a final product containing significant analysis and interpretation (e.g., exhibits, databases, oral histories, data visualizations). Consent of instructor.	Topics Course
28940	PUBPOL	 390T	BASS CONNECTIONS SPECIAL TOPIC	Selected Topics. Topics vary. Open to Bass Connections only. Project-based course in which undergraduate and graduate students work collaboratively to produce a significant public-facing research product drawing on analysis from across the social sciences. Topics vary depending on section. Students will gain a conceptual understanding of the project topic, develop research plans, conduct new research, and develop a final product containing significant analysis and interpretation (e.g., exhibits, databases, oral histories, data visualizations). Consent of instructor.	Tutorial
29050	POLSCI	 177FS	9/11 AND THE WORLD	This course critically examines the 9/11 attacks and its impact on American politics and culture. It surveys the events, people, and ideologies which led to the 9/11 attacks and its immediate aftermath; examines the US war in Afghanistan, treatment of detainees, surveillance of American Muslim communities, and rise of a national security apparatus in the US; assesses the rise of anti-immigrant, Islamophobic, anti-Semitic and extreme nationalist US domestic terror groups since 9/11; and enables students to interact with local Afghan refugees and encounter global difference. Open only to Focus students.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29050	POLSCI	 177FS	9/11 AND THE WORLD	This course critically examines the 9/11 attacks and its impact on American politics and culture. It surveys the events, people, and ideologies which led to the 9/11 attacks and its immediate aftermath; examines the US war in Afghanistan, treatment of detainees, surveillance of American Muslim communities, and rise of a national security apparatus in the US; assesses the rise of anti-immigrant, Islamophobic, anti-Semitic and extreme nationalist US domestic terror groups since 9/11; and enables students to interact with local Afghan refugees and encounter global difference. Open only to Focus students.	(CZ) Civilizations
29050	POLSCI	 177FS	9/11 AND THE WORLD	This course critically examines the 9/11 attacks and its impact on American politics and culture. It surveys the events, people, and ideologies which led to the 9/11 attacks and its immediate aftermath; examines the US war in Afghanistan, treatment of detainees, surveillance of American Muslim communities, and rise of a national security apparatus in the US; assesses the rise of anti-immigrant, Islamophobic, anti-Semitic and extreme nationalist US domestic terror groups since 9/11; and enables students to interact with local Afghan refugees and encounter global difference. Open only to Focus students.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29050	POLSCI	 177FS	9/11 AND THE WORLD	This course critically examines the 9/11 attacks and its impact on American politics and culture. It surveys the events, people, and ideologies which led to the 9/11 attacks and its immediate aftermath; examines the US war in Afghanistan, treatment of detainees, surveillance of American Muslim communities, and rise of a national security apparatus in the US; assesses the rise of anti-immigrant, Islamophobic, anti-Semitic and extreme nationalist US domestic terror groups since 9/11; and enables students to interact with local Afghan refugees and encounter global difference. Open only to Focus students.	Seminar
29060	SOCIOL	 190FS	TOPICS IN FOCUS PROGRAM	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Current list of courses available in the Focus program brochure and online.	Seminar
29060	SOCIOL	 190FS	TOPICS IN FOCUS PROGRAM	Open only to students in the Focus Program. Current list of courses available in the Focus program brochure and online.	Topics Course
29062	ENVIRON	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29062	ENVIRON	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29062	ENVIRON	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(SS) Social Sciences
29062	ENVIRON	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	Seminar
29062	ETHICS	 193FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29062	ETHICS	 193FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29062	ETHICS	 193FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(SS) Social Sciences
29062	ETHICS	 193FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	Seminar
29062	PUBPOL	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29062	PUBPOL	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29062	PUBPOL	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	(SS) Social Sciences
29062	PUBPOL	 180FS	ENV/CLIMATE JUSTICE MVMTS	This course examines the contentious politics of the environmental justice and climate justice movements. We explore how these movements and their opposition work to shape political opportunities and responses. We will consider the substantive concerns of the environmental justice movement, the climate justice movement, their methods, and the scales at which they operate (local, national, global). Social movements of political significance will generate opposition. So, we will consider the countermovements that challenge both justice movements. These topics will be explored using a range of materials as well as through field observations of movement activities and other events. FOCUS program students only.	Seminar
29082	BIOLOGY	438	CHEMICAL DIALOGS IN BIOLOGY	Intra-species and inter-species chemical communications. Production, detection and transduction of chemical signals and cues. How these signaling molecules evoke biological and behavioral responses across the kingdoms of life. Recommended prerequisite: Biology 201L or 203L, and Chemistry 201L and 202L.	(NS) Natural Sciences
29093	AAAS	 187FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	(NS) Natural Sciences
29093	AAAS	 187FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	(SS) Social Sciences
29093	AAAS	 187FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29093	AAAS	 187FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	Seminar
29093	BIOLOGY	 189FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	(NS) Natural Sciences
29093	BIOLOGY	 189FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	(SS) Social Sciences
29093	BIOLOGY	 189FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29093	BIOLOGY	 189FS	BIOLOGICAL IMPACT OF RACISM	Racial differences in health outcomes and their social, historical, and epigenetic origins. The biological impact of the experience of racism on Black, Indigenous, Asian, and Latinx people as well as newly acculturating immigrants. How the stress of racism is codified in biological systems including increased inflammation; changes in gene expression; alterations in immune function; placental functioning; telomere shortening, physiological 'weathering'; and possible changes in life history. Research on how to build resiliency and mechanisms for managing stress. Offered only in the Focus Program	Seminar
29095	ARTHIST	337	THE ART OF GARDENS	This course explores the history of garden and landscape design through a series of case studies beginning with ancient gardens of the Mediterranean and Near East and ending with the Sarah P. Duke gardens. Students will explore how landscapes were shaped to meet the aesthetic, agricultural, and social needs of a range of different cultures and time periods. Among the themes explored are the tension between the natural environment and human intervention and the religious, philosophical, and cultural significance of garden design. The class will culminate in a detailed study of Duke gardens, in which students will digitally map and conduct research into a portion of the gardens.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29095	ARTHIST	337	THE ART OF GARDENS	This course explores the history of garden and landscape design through a series of case studies beginning with ancient gardens of the Mediterranean and Near East and ending with the Sarah P. Duke gardens. Students will explore how landscapes were shaped to meet the aesthetic, agricultural, and social needs of a range of different cultures and time periods. Among the themes explored are the tension between the natural environment and human intervention and the religious, philosophical, and cultural significance of garden design. The class will culminate in a detailed study of Duke gardens, in which students will digitally map and conduct research into a portion of the gardens.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29095	ARTHIST	337	THE ART OF GARDENS	This course explores the history of garden and landscape design through a series of case studies beginning with ancient gardens of the Mediterranean and Near East and ending with the Sarah P. Duke gardens. Students will explore how landscapes were shaped to meet the aesthetic, agricultural, and social needs of a range of different cultures and time periods. Among the themes explored are the tension between the natural environment and human intervention and the religious, philosophical, and cultural significance of garden design. The class will culminate in a detailed study of Duke gardens, in which students will digitally map and conduct research into a portion of the gardens.	(R) Research
29097	ISS	 125FS	FOUNDATIONS OF GAME DESIGN	Exploration of the theory and practice of game design with a focus on critical play, game decomposition, and iterative design. Students explore a range of non-digital games to discover how design elements combine to form meaningful systems of play. Readings, discussion, and hands-on design exercises prepare students as they design, develop, and document meaningful games in a collaborative environment. Programming experience is not required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29097	ISS	 125FS	FOUNDATIONS OF GAME DESIGN	Exploration of the theory and practice of game design with a focus on critical play, game decomposition, and iterative design. Students explore a range of non-digital games to discover how design elements combine to form meaningful systems of play. Readings, discussion, and hands-on design exercises prepare students as they design, develop, and document meaningful games in a collaborative environment. Programming experience is not required.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29101	AAAS	 376S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29101	AAAS	 376S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
29101	AAAS	 376S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	Seminar
29101	FRENCH	 375S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29101	FRENCH	 375S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
29101	FRENCH	 375S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	Seminar
29101	GSF	 285S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29101	GSF	 285S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
29101	GSF	 285S	LOVE, SEX, MADNESS	This course explores the themes of love, sex, and madness as the lenses through which Caribbean writers and filmmakers have challenged traditional ideas of citizenship, family, gender roles, and political power. What, for example, is the connection between a dictatorship in Haiti and women's sexual desire? How does the figure of 'the mad Creole woman' challenge masculinist constructions of national identity in the early years of independence in Africa? How might the love between a mother and child be read as an act of anti-colonial resistance? We will examine these questions through novels, short stories, and films. Recommended prerequisite: French 204 or equivalent.	Seminar
29102	ETHICS	 178FS	NEOLIBERALISM AND US POLITICS	Neoliberalism is a philosophical framework so intrinsic to contemporary US politics that it can be difficult for Americans to articulate, contemplate, and critique. In this course, we will define neoliberalism, evaluate its role in US politics and society, and discuss alternative social and political worldviews.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29102	ETHICS	 178FS	NEOLIBERALISM AND US POLITICS	Neoliberalism is a philosophical framework so intrinsic to contemporary US politics that it can be difficult for Americans to articulate, contemplate, and critique. In this course, we will define neoliberalism, evaluate its role in US politics and society, and discuss alternative social and political worldviews.	(SS) Social Sciences
29102	ETHICS	 178FS	NEOLIBERALISM AND US POLITICS	Neoliberalism is a philosophical framework so intrinsic to contemporary US politics that it can be difficult for Americans to articulate, contemplate, and critique. In this course, we will define neoliberalism, evaluate its role in US politics and society, and discuss alternative social and political worldviews.	Seminar
29102	PUBPOL	 179FS	NEOLIBERALISM AND US POLITICS	Neoliberalism is a philosophical framework so intrinsic to contemporary US politics that it can be difficult for Americans to articulate, contemplate, and critique. In this course, we will define neoliberalism, evaluate its role in US politics and society, and discuss alternative social and political worldviews.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29102	PUBPOL	 179FS	NEOLIBERALISM AND US POLITICS	Neoliberalism is a philosophical framework so intrinsic to contemporary US politics that it can be difficult for Americans to articulate, contemplate, and critique. In this course, we will define neoliberalism, evaluate its role in US politics and society, and discuss alternative social and political worldviews.	(SS) Social Sciences
29102	PUBPOL	 179FS	NEOLIBERALISM AND US POLITICS	Neoliberalism is a philosophical framework so intrinsic to contemporary US politics that it can be difficult for Americans to articulate, contemplate, and critique. In this course, we will define neoliberalism, evaluate its role in US politics and society, and discuss alternative social and political worldviews.	Seminar
29103	ECON	 182FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
29103	ECON	 182FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29103	ECON	 182FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	Seminar
29103	ETHICS	 182FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
29103	ETHICS	 182FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29103	ETHICS	 182FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	Seminar
29103	HISTORY	 170FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
29103	HISTORY	 170FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29103	HISTORY	 170FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	Seminar
29103	PUBPOL	 171FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(CZ) Civilizations
29103	PUBPOL	 171FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29103	PUBPOL	 171FS	BEYOND DENIAL	Part of the Focus cluster 'It's Not Too Late to Build a Better World,' requires permission. What are the roots of the climate crisis or unparalleled inequality?  This course explores big ideas as well as specific models that envision a radically different future, one that provides for the common good within our given biophysical limits, including discourses such as post-growth, wellbeing, and care economics; eco-feminism; eco-anarchism; decolonization; ecological justice; and commoning.  A reading and discussion intensive course that uses an interdisciplinary approach and includes elements of research, individual and group presentations, as well as a writing requirement.	Seminar
29104	ENERGY	 178FS	ENERGY POL FOR CHANGING WORLD	Energy use is essential to all aspects of modern life and a significant determinant of economic and social opportunity throughout the world. Yet energy use can also have detrimental effects on the environment and societyclimate change being the most grave example. This course will explore how public policies affect the way that energy is produced and used and how policies can be designed to advance a more accessible, affordable, reliable and clean energy system. It will draw on material from multiple disciplines to gain a deeper understanding of the array of factors affecting our current energy system. Focus program students only.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29104	ENERGY	 178FS	ENERGY POL FOR CHANGING WORLD	Energy use is essential to all aspects of modern life and a significant determinant of economic and social opportunity throughout the world. Yet energy use can also have detrimental effects on the environment and societyclimate change being the most grave example. This course will explore how public policies affect the way that energy is produced and used and how policies can be designed to advance a more accessible, affordable, reliable and clean energy system. It will draw on material from multiple disciplines to gain a deeper understanding of the array of factors affecting our current energy system. Focus program students only.	(SS) Social Sciences
29104	ENERGY	 178FS	ENERGY POL FOR CHANGING WORLD	Energy use is essential to all aspects of modern life and a significant determinant of economic and social opportunity throughout the world. Yet energy use can also have detrimental effects on the environment and societyclimate change being the most grave example. This course will explore how public policies affect the way that energy is produced and used and how policies can be designed to advance a more accessible, affordable, reliable and clean energy system. It will draw on material from multiple disciplines to gain a deeper understanding of the array of factors affecting our current energy system. Focus program students only.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29104	ENERGY	 178FS	ENERGY POL FOR CHANGING WORLD	Energy use is essential to all aspects of modern life and a significant determinant of economic and social opportunity throughout the world. Yet energy use can also have detrimental effects on the environment and societyclimate change being the most grave example. This course will explore how public policies affect the way that energy is produced and used and how policies can be designed to advance a more accessible, affordable, reliable and clean energy system. It will draw on material from multiple disciplines to gain a deeper understanding of the array of factors affecting our current energy system. Focus program students only.	Seminar
29105	ENERGY	 188FS	HISTORY OF ENERGY	The use of energy throughout human history is explored, starting from the beginnings of humanity to modern power generation. This course will consider the development of different energy sources over time, the history of energy conversion and storage technologies, and the establishment of modern thermal sciences. A major focus is the investigation of how these developments affected societal, economic, military, and technological change and growth. Understanding the historical trends related to energy use and power generation will allow for better informed prediction of humanity's energy future. Open only to students in the Focus program.	(CZ) Civilizations
29105	ENERGY	 188FS	HISTORY OF ENERGY	The use of energy throughout human history is explored, starting from the beginnings of humanity to modern power generation. This course will consider the development of different energy sources over time, the history of energy conversion and storage technologies, and the establishment of modern thermal sciences. A major focus is the investigation of how these developments affected societal, economic, military, and technological change and growth. Understanding the historical trends related to energy use and power generation will allow for better informed prediction of humanity's energy future. Open only to students in the Focus program.	(SS) Social Sciences
29105	ENERGY	 188FS	HISTORY OF ENERGY	The use of energy throughout human history is explored, starting from the beginnings of humanity to modern power generation. This course will consider the development of different energy sources over time, the history of energy conversion and storage technologies, and the establishment of modern thermal sciences. A major focus is the investigation of how these developments affected societal, economic, military, and technological change and growth. Understanding the historical trends related to energy use and power generation will allow for better informed prediction of humanity's energy future. Open only to students in the Focus program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29105	ENERGY	 188FS	HISTORY OF ENERGY	The use of energy throughout human history is explored, starting from the beginnings of humanity to modern power generation. This course will consider the development of different energy sources over time, the history of energy conversion and storage technologies, and the establishment of modern thermal sciences. A major focus is the investigation of how these developments affected societal, economic, military, and technological change and growth. Understanding the historical trends related to energy use and power generation will allow for better informed prediction of humanity's energy future. Open only to students in the Focus program.	Seminar
29106	ECON	 113FS	THINKING THROUGH MODELS	Models of agents, behaviors, mechanisms and markets are essential to the way economists think about and describe the world. This course examines several of the models that have been most crucial to the development of economic thought from the early nineteenth century through to the present. Students will learn to understand how economists have used models as tools of inquiry and prediction, assess the functional elements of these models and consider how accurately they map on to the empirical phenomena they describe. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(SS) Social Sciences
29106	ECON	 113FS	THINKING THROUGH MODELS	Models of agents, behaviors, mechanisms and markets are essential to the way economists think about and describe the world. This course examines several of the models that have been most crucial to the development of economic thought from the early nineteenth century through to the present. Students will learn to understand how economists have used models as tools of inquiry and prediction, assess the functional elements of these models and consider how accurately they map on to the empirical phenomena they describe. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29106	ECON	 113FS	THINKING THROUGH MODELS	Models of agents, behaviors, mechanisms and markets are essential to the way economists think about and describe the world. This course examines several of the models that have been most crucial to the development of economic thought from the early nineteenth century through to the present. Students will learn to understand how economists have used models as tools of inquiry and prediction, assess the functional elements of these models and consider how accurately they map on to the empirical phenomena they describe. Open only to students in the Focus Program.	Seminar
29107	HISTORY	 111FS	HISTORY OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Medicine has long been a global undertaking, and knowing its history prepares us to address emerging health crises. This Focus course begins with the coronavirus pandemic and the first major infectious disease epidemics that emerged from increased trade and warfare: plague and smallpox. Critical analysis of colonial medicine reveals reasons for ongoing inequalities in global health today. We analyze smallpox, cholera and schistosomiasis eradication programs and consider the importance of basic hygiene and safe childbirth. The core text examines the role of stigma in global health today. Your work will include an individual research paper on a topic you choose.	(CZ) Civilizations
29107	HISTORY	 111FS	HISTORY OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Medicine has long been a global undertaking, and knowing its history prepares us to address emerging health crises. This Focus course begins with the coronavirus pandemic and the first major infectious disease epidemics that emerged from increased trade and warfare: plague and smallpox. Critical analysis of colonial medicine reveals reasons for ongoing inequalities in global health today. We analyze smallpox, cholera and schistosomiasis eradication programs and consider the importance of basic hygiene and safe childbirth. The core text examines the role of stigma in global health today. Your work will include an individual research paper on a topic you choose.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29107	HISTORY	 111FS	HISTORY OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Medicine has long been a global undertaking, and knowing its history prepares us to address emerging health crises. This Focus course begins with the coronavirus pandemic and the first major infectious disease epidemics that emerged from increased trade and warfare: plague and smallpox. Critical analysis of colonial medicine reveals reasons for ongoing inequalities in global health today. We analyze smallpox, cholera and schistosomiasis eradication programs and consider the importance of basic hygiene and safe childbirth. The core text examines the role of stigma in global health today. Your work will include an individual research paper on a topic you choose.	(W) Writing
29107	HISTORY	 111FS	HISTORY OF GLOBAL HEALTH	Medicine has long been a global undertaking, and knowing its history prepares us to address emerging health crises. This Focus course begins with the coronavirus pandemic and the first major infectious disease epidemics that emerged from increased trade and warfare: plague and smallpox. Critical analysis of colonial medicine reveals reasons for ongoing inequalities in global health today. We analyze smallpox, cholera and schistosomiasis eradication programs and consider the importance of basic hygiene and safe childbirth. The core text examines the role of stigma in global health today. Your work will include an individual research paper on a topic you choose.	Seminar
29108	HISTORY	 119FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29108	HISTORY	 119FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(CZ) Civilizations
29108	HISTORY	 119FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29108	HISTORY	 119FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(W) Writing
29108	HISTORY	 119FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	Seminar
29108	RELIGION	 118FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29108	RELIGION	 118FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(CZ) Civilizations
29108	RELIGION	 118FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29108	RELIGION	 118FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	(W) Writing
29108	RELIGION	 118FS	RELIGIOUS FREEDOM IN AMERICA	This course introduces students to the major texts and historical arguments concerning religious liberty in the United States. We will place key constitutional texts and cases into a chronologically organized historical framework, covering: European precedents to English settlement, the colonial period, nation-making and the Constitution, the early national period of religious revival and expansion, the Civil War and 14th Amendment, Mormonism, fundamentalism and secularism in the Progressive Era, WWII and religious pacifism, The Cold War, the 1960s and school prayer, the rise of the Religious Right, and recent cases involving religious freedom. Only offered in the FOCUS program.	Seminar
29109	STA	 113FS	VISUALIZING DATA	This class will teach you how to use modern data science tools to visualize data and, through the lens of visualization, it will introduce you to programming and data science concepts and workflows. Working with data on issues of local, national, and global societal importance, we will learn to create elegant, insightful, and impactful data visualizations through iterative and reproducible processes. We will also discuss the role of visualization in exploratory data analyses as well as in communicating the results of statistical inference and modeling. The course will focus on the R statistical computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary.	(QS) Quantitative Studies
29109	STA	 113FS	VISUALIZING DATA	This class will teach you how to use modern data science tools to visualize data and, through the lens of visualization, it will introduce you to programming and data science concepts and workflows. Working with data on issues of local, national, and global societal importance, we will learn to create elegant, insightful, and impactful data visualizations through iterative and reproducible processes. We will also discuss the role of visualization in exploratory data analyses as well as in communicating the results of statistical inference and modeling. The course will focus on the R statistical computing language. No statistical or computing background is necessary.	(R) Research
29118	EVANTH	 315S	HUMAN BIOLOGICAL VARIATION	This course covers biological variation in humans at the genetic and physiological/anatomical levels from an evolutionary and ecological perspective. Specifically, we will discuss shared human evolutionary traits, how past population movement has influenced the current distribution of humans around the globe, the concept and science of ancestry, evolutionary adaptation in humans, developmental adaptation and acclimatization, accommodation, epigenetic variation, biocultural adaptation, and health. Recommended prerequisite: EVANTH101 or BIO202.	(NS) Natural Sciences
29118	EVANTH	 315S	HUMAN BIOLOGICAL VARIATION	This course covers biological variation in humans at the genetic and physiological/anatomical levels from an evolutionary and ecological perspective. Specifically, we will discuss shared human evolutionary traits, how past population movement has influenced the current distribution of humans around the globe, the concept and science of ancestry, evolutionary adaptation in humans, developmental adaptation and acclimatization, accommodation, epigenetic variation, biocultural adaptation, and health. Recommended prerequisite: EVANTH101 or BIO202.	Seminar
29119	ENGLISH	 212S	WRITING ACROSS BORDERS	This is a creative nonfiction writing course focused on the concept of crossing myriad borders. What kinds of borders should an ethical, empathetic person attempt to cross in writing, in life? Are there borders that should remain uncrossed? Students who have participated inor plan to participate ina study or work abroad program may wish to focus their inquiry on geographical border crossing and the questions that raises such as: how does one write criticallyor sympatheticallyabout a culture outside one's own without being arrogant or elitist? How much can any non-native expect to understand about a country--or culture--not their own?	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29119	ENGLISH	 212S	WRITING ACROSS BORDERS	This is a creative nonfiction writing course focused on the concept of crossing myriad borders. What kinds of borders should an ethical, empathetic person attempt to cross in writing, in life? Are there borders that should remain uncrossed? Students who have participated inor plan to participate ina study or work abroad program may wish to focus their inquiry on geographical border crossing and the questions that raises such as: how does one write criticallyor sympatheticallyabout a culture outside one's own without being arrogant or elitist? How much can any non-native expect to understand about a country--or culture--not their own?	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29119	ENGLISH	 212S	WRITING ACROSS BORDERS	This is a creative nonfiction writing course focused on the concept of crossing myriad borders. What kinds of borders should an ethical, empathetic person attempt to cross in writing, in life? Are there borders that should remain uncrossed? Students who have participated inor plan to participate ina study or work abroad program may wish to focus their inquiry on geographical border crossing and the questions that raises such as: how does one write criticallyor sympatheticallyabout a culture outside one's own without being arrogant or elitist? How much can any non-native expect to understand about a country--or culture--not their own?	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29119	ENGLISH	 212S	WRITING ACROSS BORDERS	This is a creative nonfiction writing course focused on the concept of crossing myriad borders. What kinds of borders should an ethical, empathetic person attempt to cross in writing, in life? Are there borders that should remain uncrossed? Students who have participated inor plan to participate ina study or work abroad program may wish to focus their inquiry on geographical border crossing and the questions that raises such as: how does one write criticallyor sympatheticallyabout a culture outside one's own without being arrogant or elitist? How much can any non-native expect to understand about a country--or culture--not their own?	(W) Writing
29119	ENGLISH	 212S	WRITING ACROSS BORDERS	This is a creative nonfiction writing course focused on the concept of crossing myriad borders. What kinds of borders should an ethical, empathetic person attempt to cross in writing, in life? Are there borders that should remain uncrossed? Students who have participated inor plan to participate ina study or work abroad program may wish to focus their inquiry on geographical border crossing and the questions that raises such as: how does one write criticallyor sympatheticallyabout a culture outside one's own without being arrogant or elitist? How much can any non-native expect to understand about a country--or culture--not their own?	Seminar
29120	AAAS	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29120	AAAS	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CZ) Civilizations
29120	AAAS	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	Seminar
29120	CULANTH	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29120	CULANTH	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CZ) Civilizations
29120	CULANTH	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	Seminar
29120	LATAMER	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29120	LATAMER	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CZ) Civilizations
29120	LATAMER	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	Seminar
29120	ROMST	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29120	ROMST	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	(CZ) Civilizations
29120	ROMST	 412S	AFRO-LATIN AMERICA	This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present day. Emphasis is on an interdisciplinary engagement with issues and critical discussion of national images contrasted with the realities of blackness. We will explore the connections between race, gender, sexuality, and representation in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of the migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere. Countries to be explored include Cuba, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Mexico, Haiti, and Peru.	Seminar
29121	DOCST	369	INTRODUCTION TO PODCASTING	Podcasting has exploded in recent years, with hundreds of thousands of shows in production and more than a fifth of Americans listening to podcasts at least weekly. This course will provide a hands-on introduction to the craft of podcasting, combined with critical reflection on various podcast forms. Students will consider the role of podcasts in the changing media equation, including the role of podcasts in local news. They will gain practice with the basics of podcast creation and will apply these lessons by creating podcast episodes focusing on the people, places, and issues of Durham, N.C.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29121	DOCST	369	INTRODUCTION TO PODCASTING	Podcasting has exploded in recent years, with hundreds of thousands of shows in production and more than a fifth of Americans listening to podcasts at least weekly. This course will provide a hands-on introduction to the craft of podcasting, combined with critical reflection on various podcast forms. Students will consider the role of podcasts in the changing media equation, including the role of podcasts in local news. They will gain practice with the basics of podcast creation and will apply these lessons by creating podcast episodes focusing on the people, places, and issues of Durham, N.C.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29121	DOCST	369	INTRODUCTION TO PODCASTING	Podcasting has exploded in recent years, with hundreds of thousands of shows in production and more than a fifth of Americans listening to podcasts at least weekly. This course will provide a hands-on introduction to the craft of podcasting, combined with critical reflection on various podcast forms. Students will consider the role of podcasts in the changing media equation, including the role of podcasts in local news. They will gain practice with the basics of podcast creation and will apply these lessons by creating podcast episodes focusing on the people, places, and issues of Durham, N.C.	(R) Research
29121	PJMS	363	INTRODUCTION TO PODCASTING	Podcasting has exploded in recent years, with hundreds of thousands of shows in production and more than a fifth of Americans listening to podcasts at least weekly. This course will provide a hands-on introduction to the craft of podcasting, combined with critical reflection on various podcast forms. Students will consider the role of podcasts in the changing media equation, including the role of podcasts in local news. They will gain practice with the basics of podcast creation and will apply these lessons by creating podcast episodes focusing on the people, places, and issues of Durham, N.C.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29121	PJMS	363	INTRODUCTION TO PODCASTING	Podcasting has exploded in recent years, with hundreds of thousands of shows in production and more than a fifth of Americans listening to podcasts at least weekly. This course will provide a hands-on introduction to the craft of podcasting, combined with critical reflection on various podcast forms. Students will consider the role of podcasts in the changing media equation, including the role of podcasts in local news. They will gain practice with the basics of podcast creation and will apply these lessons by creating podcast episodes focusing on the people, places, and issues of Durham, N.C.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29121	PJMS	363	INTRODUCTION TO PODCASTING	Podcasting has exploded in recent years, with hundreds of thousands of shows in production and more than a fifth of Americans listening to podcasts at least weekly. This course will provide a hands-on introduction to the craft of podcasting, combined with critical reflection on various podcast forms. Students will consider the role of podcasts in the changing media equation, including the role of podcasts in local news. They will gain practice with the basics of podcast creation and will apply these lessons by creating podcast episodes focusing on the people, places, and issues of Durham, N.C.	(R) Research
29122	MUSIC	214	THE SINGING ACTOR	The Singing Actor is a research and workshop-based musical theater course designed to introduce students to the analytical and performative demands of acting a song. The course aims to give students a working knowledge of music theory methods, exercises, and essential aesthetics in vocal production and vocal wellness, as well as an in-depth study of script analysis, score analysis, and character development for the musical. Researching and physically preparing songs and scores from various musical genres is the primary focus of the course with the preparation of song pieces for songbooks and audition settings being a secondary focus.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29122	MUSIC	214	THE SINGING ACTOR	The Singing Actor is a research and workshop-based musical theater course designed to introduce students to the analytical and performative demands of acting a song. The course aims to give students a working knowledge of music theory methods, exercises, and essential aesthetics in vocal production and vocal wellness, as well as an in-depth study of script analysis, score analysis, and character development for the musical. Researching and physically preparing songs and scores from various musical genres is the primary focus of the course with the preparation of song pieces for songbooks and audition settings being a secondary focus.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29122	THEATRST	215	THE SINGING ACTOR	The Singing Actor is a research and workshop-based musical theater course designed to introduce students to the analytical and performative demands of acting a song. The course aims to give students a working knowledge of music theory methods, exercises, and essential aesthetics in vocal production and vocal wellness, as well as an in-depth study of script analysis, score analysis, and character development for the musical. Researching and physically preparing songs and scores from various musical genres is the primary focus of the course with the preparation of song pieces for songbooks and audition settings being a secondary focus.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29122	THEATRST	215	THE SINGING ACTOR	The Singing Actor is a research and workshop-based musical theater course designed to introduce students to the analytical and performative demands of acting a song. The course aims to give students a working knowledge of music theory methods, exercises, and essential aesthetics in vocal production and vocal wellness, as well as an in-depth study of script analysis, score analysis, and character development for the musical. Researching and physically preparing songs and scores from various musical genres is the primary focus of the course with the preparation of song pieces for songbooks and audition settings being a secondary focus.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29123	AAAS	202	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29123	AAAS	202	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29123	AAAS	202	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29123	ETHICS	222	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29123	ETHICS	222	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29123	ETHICS	222	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29123	GSF	223	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29123	GSF	223	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29123	GSF	223	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29123	THEATRST	221	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29123	THEATRST	221	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29123	THEATRST	221	MANIFESTO WORKSHOP	Manifesto Workshop: Afro-/Solarpunk, Climate Change, and Performance is a performance-based workshop that seeks to explore radical, embodied storytelling through the lenses of several manifestos: Afrofuturism, Solarpunk, Environmental Justice, and Queer Utopias. Through creative research, embodied 'in(queer)y,' and collaborative theater-making, the workshop will culminate in a public performance of original student work.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29124	AAAS	203	SPORT AS PERFORMANCE	This course studies athletic cultures under rubrics provided by theater, performance studies, anthropology, media studies, and history to understand sports as ritual, theater, and performance. Our investigation includes professional and collegiate teams sports, as well as individual athletic performances. The course includes examinations of gender, race, and national identity in live events and the media. A twice-weekly seminar format features lectures, discussions, independent research projects, and guest speakers from the worlds of athletics, theater, and media.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29124	AAAS	203	SPORT AS PERFORMANCE	This course studies athletic cultures under rubrics provided by theater, performance studies, anthropology, media studies, and history to understand sports as ritual, theater, and performance. Our investigation includes professional and collegiate teams sports, as well as individual athletic performances. The course includes examinations of gender, race, and national identity in live events and the media. A twice-weekly seminar format features lectures, discussions, independent research projects, and guest speakers from the worlds of athletics, theater, and media.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29124	THEATRST	224	SPORT AS PERFORMANCE	This course studies athletic cultures under rubrics provided by theater, performance studies, anthropology, media studies, and history to understand sports as ritual, theater, and performance. Our investigation includes professional and collegiate teams sports, as well as individual athletic performances. The course includes examinations of gender, race, and national identity in live events and the media. A twice-weekly seminar format features lectures, discussions, independent research projects, and guest speakers from the worlds of athletics, theater, and media.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29124	THEATRST	224	SPORT AS PERFORMANCE	This course studies athletic cultures under rubrics provided by theater, performance studies, anthropology, media studies, and history to understand sports as ritual, theater, and performance. Our investigation includes professional and collegiate teams sports, as well as individual athletic performances. The course includes examinations of gender, race, and national identity in live events and the media. A twice-weekly seminar format features lectures, discussions, independent research projects, and guest speakers from the worlds of athletics, theater, and media.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29125	THEATRST	 226S	WORLD BUILDING FOR THE THEATER	World Building for the Theater introduces students to the design components used to create a theatrical production: set, costumes, sound, lighting, and projection. Students learn the process that brings these components to life: play analysis for design, artistic research, design, technical and build preparation, construction, and final performance. Each student has the opportunity to focus on their particular area of interest while contributing to the creation of the Theater Studies Mainstage production. Students work in the areas of set, costumes, lights, paint, and backstage support, gaining hands-on practical experience with the tools of their chosen area of interest.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29125	THEATRST	 226S	WORLD BUILDING FOR THE THEATER	World Building for the Theater introduces students to the design components used to create a theatrical production: set, costumes, sound, lighting, and projection. Students learn the process that brings these components to life: play analysis for design, artistic research, design, technical and build preparation, construction, and final performance. Each student has the opportunity to focus on their particular area of interest while contributing to the creation of the Theater Studies Mainstage production. Students work in the areas of set, costumes, lights, paint, and backstage support, gaining hands-on practical experience with the tools of their chosen area of interest.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29125	THEATRST	 226S	WORLD BUILDING FOR THE THEATER	World Building for the Theater introduces students to the design components used to create a theatrical production: set, costumes, sound, lighting, and projection. Students learn the process that brings these components to life: play analysis for design, artistic research, design, technical and build preparation, construction, and final performance. Each student has the opportunity to focus on their particular area of interest while contributing to the creation of the Theater Studies Mainstage production. Students work in the areas of set, costumes, lights, paint, and backstage support, gaining hands-on practical experience with the tools of their chosen area of interest.	Seminar
29126	DANCE	229	STAGE MANAGEMENT	This course will familiarize the student with techniques and skills required to be a smart, efficient and effective Stage Manager in a Theatrical Production. We will delve into the principles and processes of stage management through exploration of the tasks required of stage managers throughout the production process.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29126	DANCE	229	STAGE MANAGEMENT	This course will familiarize the student with techniques and skills required to be a smart, efficient and effective Stage Manager in a Theatrical Production. We will delve into the principles and processes of stage management through exploration of the tasks required of stage managers throughout the production process.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29126	THEATRST	229	STAGE MANAGEMENT	This course will familiarize the student with techniques and skills required to be a smart, efficient and effective Stage Manager in a Theatrical Production. We will delve into the principles and processes of stage management through exploration of the tasks required of stage managers throughout the production process.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29126	THEATRST	229	STAGE MANAGEMENT	This course will familiarize the student with techniques and skills required to be a smart, efficient and effective Stage Manager in a Theatrical Production. We will delve into the principles and processes of stage management through exploration of the tasks required of stage managers throughout the production process.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29127	HISTORY	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29127	HISTORY	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(CZ) Civilizations
29127	HISTORY	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29127	HISTORY	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	Seminar
29127	LIT	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29127	LIT	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(CZ) Civilizations
29127	LIT	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29127	LIT	 337S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	Seminar
29127	MEDREN	 335S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29127	MEDREN	 335S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(CZ) Civilizations
29127	MEDREN	 335S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29127	MEDREN	 335S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	Seminar
29127	ROMST	 336S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29127	ROMST	 336S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(CZ) Civilizations
29127	ROMST	 336S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29127	ROMST	 336S	DON QUIXOTE FOR BEGINNERS	This course introduces students to the overlapping realities and worlds that the novel encompasses to explore, through don Quixote's knightly ambitions of justice, love, and freedom, the similarities, and differences we see between ourselves and others, in a changing world where chivalry ideals, popular culture, history, and uprooted lives, and early capitalism dialogue to each other. Multiple characters raise questions about escapism, social justice, borders, and exile linking the present and the past.	Seminar
29139	MUSIC	 296S	MUSIC ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Music Entrepreneurship addresses, first and foremost, how to get your art out into the world. This course also explores strategies musicians can use to cultivate an audience and then how to monetize their art and earn an income as a musician. Prerequisites for the course are the ability to perform music (any style, instrument, or voice) and an interest in learning how to get your music out into the world.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29139	MUSIC	 296S	MUSIC ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Music Entrepreneurship addresses, first and foremost, how to get your art out into the world. This course also explores strategies musicians can use to cultivate an audience and then how to monetize their art and earn an income as a musician. Prerequisites for the course are the ability to perform music (any style, instrument, or voice) and an interest in learning how to get your music out into the world.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29139	MUSIC	 296S	MUSIC ENTREPRENEURSHIP	Music Entrepreneurship addresses, first and foremost, how to get your art out into the world. This course also explores strategies musicians can use to cultivate an audience and then how to monetize their art and earn an income as a musician. Prerequisites for the course are the ability to perform music (any style, instrument, or voice) and an interest in learning how to get your music out into the world.	Seminar
29140	KOREAN	 273T-2	VOICES IN MUSIC : KOREAN	Voices in Music explores how language and culture impact the production and reception of music in Korean-speaking communities. Texts include compositions, lyrics, music videos, interviews, visual texts, and documentaries, allowing students to examine music from multiple perspectives in Korean. Discussions will include ethnomusicology, representations of culture and identity, performance, and the music industry. Tutorials are taught in Korean. Recommended prerequisite: 4 semesters-level of language study (KOREAN 204) or equivalent.	Tutorial
29140	MUSIC	 235T-2	VOICES IN MUSIC : KOREAN	Voices in Music explores how language and culture impact the production and reception of music in Korean-speaking communities. Texts include compositions, lyrics, music videos, interviews, visual texts, and documentaries, allowing students to examine music from multiple perspectives in Korean. Discussions will include ethnomusicology, representations of culture and identity, performance, and the music industry. Tutorials are taught in Korean. Recommended prerequisite: 4 semesters-level of language study (KOREAN 204) or equivalent.	Tutorial
29141	CHINESE	370	DEB IN CHN: SURV OF CHN THINK	Introducing the main ideas of Confucianism through modern translations of canonical Chinese texts. Observing and examining the representation of information in multimedia, real-life situations, and current events. Learning the original stories behind idioms and the impact of those texts on the belief system in Chinese-speaking regions. Emphasizing oral proficiency in Chinese through various formats including inquiries, discussion, dialogue, debate, and role-play. Comparisons with respect to philosophical perspectives and approaches to manage critical issues between Chinese and Western cultures. Recommended prerequisite: Chinese 333, 407, or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29141	CHINESE	370	DEB IN CHN: SURV OF CHN THINK	Introducing the main ideas of Confucianism through modern translations of canonical Chinese texts. Observing and examining the representation of information in multimedia, real-life situations, and current events. Learning the original stories behind idioms and the impact of those texts on the belief system in Chinese-speaking regions. Emphasizing oral proficiency in Chinese through various formats including inquiries, discussion, dialogue, debate, and role-play. Comparisons with respect to philosophical perspectives and approaches to manage critical issues between Chinese and Western cultures. Recommended prerequisite: Chinese 333, 407, or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29141	CHINESE	370	DEB IN CHN: SURV OF CHN THINK	Introducing the main ideas of Confucianism through modern translations of canonical Chinese texts. Observing and examining the representation of information in multimedia, real-life situations, and current events. Learning the original stories behind idioms and the impact of those texts on the belief system in Chinese-speaking regions. Emphasizing oral proficiency in Chinese through various formats including inquiries, discussion, dialogue, debate, and role-play. Comparisons with respect to philosophical perspectives and approaches to manage critical issues between Chinese and Western cultures. Recommended prerequisite: Chinese 333, 407, or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
29141	CHINESE	370	DEB IN CHN: SURV OF CHN THINK	Introducing the main ideas of Confucianism through modern translations of canonical Chinese texts. Observing and examining the representation of information in multimedia, real-life situations, and current events. Learning the original stories behind idioms and the impact of those texts on the belief system in Chinese-speaking regions. Emphasizing oral proficiency in Chinese through various formats including inquiries, discussion, dialogue, debate, and role-play. Comparisons with respect to philosophical perspectives and approaches to manage critical issues between Chinese and Western cultures. Recommended prerequisite: Chinese 333, 407, or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
29143	DOCST	 370S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29143	DOCST	 370S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29143	DOCST	 370S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29143	DOCST	 370S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	Seminar
29143	ENGLISH	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29143	ENGLISH	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29143	ENGLISH	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29143	ENGLISH	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	Seminar
29143	ENVIRON	 385S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29143	ENVIRON	 385S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29143	ENVIRON	 385S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29143	ENVIRON	 385S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	Seminar
29143	SCISOC	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29143	SCISOC	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29143	SCISOC	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29143	SCISOC	 360S	ENVIRONMENT IN LIT, LAW & SCI	This class explores changing concepts of 'environment' and 'nature' in lit, law & policy, & science. Using the Duke Campus Farm, the campus, & surrounding areas, we trace those changes across historical periods and cultures, culminating in a consideration of the dismantling of Black Durham (red lining, 147) & the emergence of the Environmental Justice Movement (in Warren County, NC). We explore how those concepts are constructed through science, law & policy, & cultural forms, how those concepts shape our lived experience, & how an understanding of that process might lead to more productive debates in science, law & policy, & ethics, and to constructive social and environmental change.	Seminar
29144	HISTORY	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29144	HISTORY	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CZ) Civilizations
29144	HISTORY	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(SS) Social Sciences
29144	POLSCI	259	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29144	POLSCI	259	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CZ) Civilizations
29144	POLSCI	259	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(SS) Social Sciences
29144	PUBPOL	224	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29144	PUBPOL	224	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CZ) Civilizations
29144	PUBPOL	224	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(SS) Social Sciences
29144	RUSSIAN	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29144	RUSSIAN	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CZ) Civilizations
29144	RUSSIAN	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(SS) Social Sciences
29144	SES	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29144	SES	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(CZ) Civilizations
29144	SES	237	RUSSIA IN THE WORLD	Traces evolution of Russian Federation foreign policy from the collapse of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s to the 2022 war in Ukraine. Examines elements of Russian grand strategy: military, economic (especially oil and gas), and diplomatic tools. Explores the role of one individual, President Vladimir Putin, in shaping policy in an increasingly autocratic state. Focuses on Russia's relations with its neighbors, former allies, Europe, and the wider world, including the United States. Identifies linkages between domestic politics and events and foreign policy. Assignments focus on translating historical knowledge into actionable policy advice to meet current challenges.	(SS) Social Sciences
29145	MUSIC	 398S	ADVANCED CHAMBER MUSIC PERF.	Meeting the World Through Chamber Music is designed for advanced study, collaborative performance and interpretation of 250 years of music; historical context study; understanding of interpretive choices. Topics covered: overtones in blend and tuning; rehearsal techniques; presenting introductions for mature concert-goers; Interactive Performances for school-aged audiences. Performances in the community and a final culmination recital. Community engagement at Fayetteville Elementary School, Durham; potential travel to an American Conservatory of Music. Instructor consent required, and recommended prerequisite or co-requisites: Music 211-2 and Music 204.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29145	MUSIC	 398S	ADVANCED CHAMBER MUSIC PERF.	Meeting the World Through Chamber Music is designed for advanced study, collaborative performance and interpretation of 250 years of music; historical context study; understanding of interpretive choices. Topics covered: overtones in blend and tuning; rehearsal techniques; presenting introductions for mature concert-goers; Interactive Performances for school-aged audiences. Performances in the community and a final culmination recital. Community engagement at Fayetteville Elementary School, Durham; potential travel to an American Conservatory of Music. Instructor consent required, and recommended prerequisite or co-requisites: Music 211-2 and Music 204.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29145	MUSIC	 398S	ADVANCED CHAMBER MUSIC PERF.	Meeting the World Through Chamber Music is designed for advanced study, collaborative performance and interpretation of 250 years of music; historical context study; understanding of interpretive choices. Topics covered: overtones in blend and tuning; rehearsal techniques; presenting introductions for mature concert-goers; Interactive Performances for school-aged audiences. Performances in the community and a final culmination recital. Community engagement at Fayetteville Elementary School, Durham; potential travel to an American Conservatory of Music. Instructor consent required, and recommended prerequisite or co-requisites: Music 211-2 and Music 204.	Seminar
29146	PSY	 440S	PREJUDICE & STEREOTYPING	In this upper-level undergraduate seminar, students will be introduced to classic and contemporary research on the psychology of stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. We will examine social psychological experimental evidence investigating phenomena and processes associated with people's beliefs about members of social groups (stereotypes), evaluative attitudes toward social group members (prejudice), and behavioral responses toward individuals due to their group membership(s) (discrimination). This course will help you understand when and why people express prejudice and stereotype others as well as to consider how institutions can play a role in perpetuating disparities.	(R) Research
29146	PSY	 440S	PREJUDICE & STEREOTYPING	In this upper-level undergraduate seminar, students will be introduced to classic and contemporary research on the psychology of stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. We will examine social psychological experimental evidence investigating phenomena and processes associated with people's beliefs about members of social groups (stereotypes), evaluative attitudes toward social group members (prejudice), and behavioral responses toward individuals due to their group membership(s) (discrimination). This course will help you understand when and why people express prejudice and stereotype others as well as to consider how institutions can play a role in perpetuating disparities.	(SS) Social Sciences
29146	PSY	 440S	PREJUDICE & STEREOTYPING	In this upper-level undergraduate seminar, students will be introduced to classic and contemporary research on the psychology of stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. We will examine social psychological experimental evidence investigating phenomena and processes associated with people's beliefs about members of social groups (stereotypes), evaluative attitudes toward social group members (prejudice), and behavioral responses toward individuals due to their group membership(s) (discrimination). This course will help you understand when and why people express prejudice and stereotype others as well as to consider how institutions can play a role in perpetuating disparities.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29146	PSY	 440S	PREJUDICE & STEREOTYPING	In this upper-level undergraduate seminar, students will be introduced to classic and contemporary research on the psychology of stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. We will examine social psychological experimental evidence investigating phenomena and processes associated with people's beliefs about members of social groups (stereotypes), evaluative attitudes toward social group members (prejudice), and behavioral responses toward individuals due to their group membership(s) (discrimination). This course will help you understand when and why people express prejudice and stereotype others as well as to consider how institutions can play a role in perpetuating disparities.	Seminar
29147	PSY	232	ART & SCIENCE OF WHAT WORKS	Multidisciplinary evaluation of artistic portrayals of and social scientific evidence for ways to live a human life. Experiential component of class involves trying new things in life based on existing artistic portrayals and scientific evidence, collecting new quantitative data about these experiences, and learning basic data analysis skills to evaluate the evidence. Overall goal is to provide students with new knowledge and skills to maximize their college experience and prepare for an impactful life beyond Duke.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29147	PSY	232	ART & SCIENCE OF WHAT WORKS	Multidisciplinary evaluation of artistic portrayals of and social scientific evidence for ways to live a human life. Experiential component of class involves trying new things in life based on existing artistic portrayals and scientific evidence, collecting new quantitative data about these experiences, and learning basic data analysis skills to evaluate the evidence. Overall goal is to provide students with new knowledge and skills to maximize their college experience and prepare for an impactful life beyond Duke.	(R) Research
29147	PSY	232	ART & SCIENCE OF WHAT WORKS	Multidisciplinary evaluation of artistic portrayals of and social scientific evidence for ways to live a human life. Experiential component of class involves trying new things in life based on existing artistic portrayals and scientific evidence, collecting new quantitative data about these experiences, and learning basic data analysis skills to evaluate the evidence. Overall goal is to provide students with new knowledge and skills to maximize their college experience and prepare for an impactful life beyond Duke.	(SS) Social Sciences
29148	CULANTH	230	SOUTHERN VOICES	This course explores the lesser known, often hidden, and dismissed works of activism in the US South, primarily through an ethnographic lens. While many know key moments of the Civil Rights movement, much equity and justice work today has its roots in large Southern post-Reconstruction efforts and conflicts. Interdisciplinary lectures will examine a wide variety of movements including labor, health, music, sports, food, education, religion, and media representations. The trajectories of these movements will be contextualized over time in order to understand current regional grassroots and policy actions as well as impacts on national policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29148	CULANTH	230	SOUTHERN VOICES	This course explores the lesser known, often hidden, and dismissed works of activism in the US South, primarily through an ethnographic lens. While many know key moments of the Civil Rights movement, much equity and justice work today has its roots in large Southern post-Reconstruction efforts and conflicts. Interdisciplinary lectures will examine a wide variety of movements including labor, health, music, sports, food, education, religion, and media representations. The trajectories of these movements will be contextualized over time in order to understand current regional grassroots and policy actions as well as impacts on national policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
29148	RIGHTS	247	SOUTHERN VOICES	This course explores the lesser known, often hidden, and dismissed works of activism in the US South, primarily through an ethnographic lens. While many know key moments of the Civil Rights movement, much equity and justice work today has its roots in large Southern post-Reconstruction efforts and conflicts. Interdisciplinary lectures will examine a wide variety of movements including labor, health, music, sports, food, education, religion, and media representations. The trajectories of these movements will be contextualized over time in order to understand current regional grassroots and policy actions as well as impacts on national policies.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29148	RIGHTS	247	SOUTHERN VOICES	This course explores the lesser known, often hidden, and dismissed works of activism in the US South, primarily through an ethnographic lens. While many know key moments of the Civil Rights movement, much equity and justice work today has its roots in large Southern post-Reconstruction efforts and conflicts. Interdisciplinary lectures will examine a wide variety of movements including labor, health, music, sports, food, education, religion, and media representations. The trajectories of these movements will be contextualized over time in order to understand current regional grassroots and policy actions as well as impacts on national policies.	(SS) Social Sciences
29151	MALAGASY	203	INTERMEDIATE MALAGASY	Content-based approach focusing on aspects of Malagasy culture and society, with emphasis on the study of authentic audio and written texts. Course builds on elements of language acquired in the elementary sequence, expanding range and complexity of grammar and  vocabulary.	(FL) Foreign Language
29153	ITALIAN	 235T-3	VOICES IN MUSIC: ITALIAN	Voices in Music explores how language and culture impact the production and reception of music in Italian-speaking communities. Texts include compositions, lyrics, music videos, interviews, visual texts, and documentaries, allowing students to examine music from multiple perspectives in Italian. Discussions will include ethnomusicology, representations of culture and identity, performance, and the music industry. Tutorials are taught in Italian. Recommended prerequisite: 4 semesters-level of language study (ITAL 204) or equivalent.	Tutorial
29153	MUSIC	 235T-3	VOICES IN MUSIC: ITALIAN	Voices in Music explores how language and culture impact the production and reception of music in Italian-speaking communities. Texts include compositions, lyrics, music videos, interviews, visual texts, and documentaries, allowing students to examine music from multiple perspectives in Italian. Discussions will include ethnomusicology, representations of culture and identity, performance, and the music industry. Tutorials are taught in Italian. Recommended prerequisite: 4 semesters-level of language study (ITAL 204) or equivalent.	Tutorial
29183	UNIV	 103D	LET'S TALK ABOUT DIGITAL YOU	This course explores the technical and ethical aspects of a data-centric world. Students will learn about the technology underlying various digital experiences and then explore the ethical, policy, and social implications of the technology.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29183	UNIV	 103D	LET'S TALK ABOUT DIGITAL YOU	This course explores the technical and ethical aspects of a data-centric world. Students will learn about the technology underlying various digital experiences and then explore the ethical, policy, and social implications of the technology.	(SS) Social Sciences
29183	UNIV	 103D	LET'S TALK ABOUT DIGITAL YOU	This course explores the technical and ethical aspects of a data-centric world. Students will learn about the technology underlying various digital experiences and then explore the ethical, policy, and social implications of the technology.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29184	ETHICS	213	EXPLORING SCIENCE AND RELIGION	This Transformative Ideas course, geared to sophomore STEM majors, introduces the most pressing questions about science and religion. Core topics will include faith and reason; the origins of the universe; the existence of fine-tuning; evolution, randomness and design; the neuroscience of free will; the science of the soul; and science and morality. Other possible topics may include: recent theories of consciousness in psychology; the relationship between God and time; God and the epistemology of mathematics; religion and advances in AI; the neuroscience of religious experience; the possibility of miracles; and historical episodes in the development of science vis--vis religion.	(CZ) Civilizations
29184	ETHICS	213	EXPLORING SCIENCE AND RELIGION	This Transformative Ideas course, geared to sophomore STEM majors, introduces the most pressing questions about science and religion. Core topics will include faith and reason; the origins of the universe; the existence of fine-tuning; evolution, randomness and design; the neuroscience of free will; the science of the soul; and science and morality. Other possible topics may include: recent theories of consciousness in psychology; the relationship between God and time; God and the epistemology of mathematics; religion and advances in AI; the neuroscience of religious experience; the possibility of miracles; and historical episodes in the development of science vis--vis religion.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29184	NEUROSCI	233	EXPLORING SCIENCE AND RELIGION	This Transformative Ideas course, geared to sophomore STEM majors, introduces the most pressing questions about science and religion. Core topics will include faith and reason; the origins of the universe; the existence of fine-tuning; evolution, randomness and design; the neuroscience of free will; the science of the soul; and science and morality. Other possible topics may include: recent theories of consciousness in psychology; the relationship between God and time; God and the epistemology of mathematics; religion and advances in AI; the neuroscience of religious experience; the possibility of miracles; and historical episodes in the development of science vis--vis religion.	(CZ) Civilizations
29184	NEUROSCI	233	EXPLORING SCIENCE AND RELIGION	This Transformative Ideas course, geared to sophomore STEM majors, introduces the most pressing questions about science and religion. Core topics will include faith and reason; the origins of the universe; the existence of fine-tuning; evolution, randomness and design; the neuroscience of free will; the science of the soul; and science and morality. Other possible topics may include: recent theories of consciousness in psychology; the relationship between God and time; God and the epistemology of mathematics; religion and advances in AI; the neuroscience of religious experience; the possibility of miracles; and historical episodes in the development of science vis--vis religion.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29184	PHIL	213	EXPLORING SCIENCE AND RELIGION	This Transformative Ideas course, geared to sophomore STEM majors, introduces the most pressing questions about science and religion. Core topics will include faith and reason; the origins of the universe; the existence of fine-tuning; evolution, randomness and design; the neuroscience of free will; the science of the soul; and science and morality. Other possible topics may include: recent theories of consciousness in psychology; the relationship between God and time; God and the epistemology of mathematics; religion and advances in AI; the neuroscience of religious experience; the possibility of miracles; and historical episodes in the development of science vis--vis religion.	(CZ) Civilizations
29184	PHIL	213	EXPLORING SCIENCE AND RELIGION	This Transformative Ideas course, geared to sophomore STEM majors, introduces the most pressing questions about science and religion. Core topics will include faith and reason; the origins of the universe; the existence of fine-tuning; evolution, randomness and design; the neuroscience of free will; the science of the soul; and science and morality. Other possible topics may include: recent theories of consciousness in psychology; the relationship between God and time; God and the epistemology of mathematics; religion and advances in AI; the neuroscience of religious experience; the possibility of miracles; and historical episodes in the development of science vis--vis religion.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29185	ENVIRON	213	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
29185	ENVIRON	213	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29185	ENVIRON	213	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29185	ETHICS	212	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
29185	ETHICS	212	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29185	ETHICS	212	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29185	POLSCI	209	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(CZ) Civilizations
29185	POLSCI	209	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29185	POLSCI	209	ECOLOGY AND THE HUMAN GOOD	This course examines the complex network of relationships that support flourishing human communities. How do our interactions with each other and the natural world enhance or undermine our ability to grow and live together? How does the structure of human communities shape our relationship with nature? What is the proper role of markets and technological innovation in our quest for a sustainable and flourishing future world? Through an interdisciplinary lens, we will examine topics including sustainable agriculture, community formation, friendship, climate migration, environmental ethics, food, conservation, the politics of belonging and citizenship. This course is part of the Transformative Ideas Sophomore Program.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29186	LIT	 356S	FOUCAULT	This seminar is aimed at understanding Michel Foucault's innovative theories of how political and social power functions and is organized. Foucault reoriented the understanding of power from a centralized, state-centered attribute to a series of practices distributed in different social institutions. We will approach his theorical propositions through his writings on the history of the prison and the history of sexuality, along with his journalistic accounts of the revolutionary movement in Iran.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29186	LIT	 356S	FOUCAULT	This seminar is aimed at understanding Michel Foucault's innovative theories of how political and social power functions and is organized. Foucault reoriented the understanding of power from a centralized, state-centered attribute to a series of practices distributed in different social institutions. We will approach his theorical propositions through his writings on the history of the prison and the history of sexuality, along with his journalistic accounts of the revolutionary movement in Iran.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29186	LIT	 356S	FOUCAULT	This seminar is aimed at understanding Michel Foucault's innovative theories of how political and social power functions and is organized. Foucault reoriented the understanding of power from a centralized, state-centered attribute to a series of practices distributed in different social institutions. We will approach his theorical propositions through his writings on the history of the prison and the history of sexuality, along with his journalistic accounts of the revolutionary movement in Iran.	Seminar
29186	POLSCI	 355S	FOUCAULT	This seminar is aimed at understanding Michel Foucault's innovative theories of how political and social power functions and is organized. Foucault reoriented the understanding of power from a centralized, state-centered attribute to a series of practices distributed in different social institutions. We will approach his theorical propositions through his writings on the history of the prison and the history of sexuality, along with his journalistic accounts of the revolutionary movement in Iran.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29186	POLSCI	 355S	FOUCAULT	This seminar is aimed at understanding Michel Foucault's innovative theories of how political and social power functions and is organized. Foucault reoriented the understanding of power from a centralized, state-centered attribute to a series of practices distributed in different social institutions. We will approach his theorical propositions through his writings on the history of the prison and the history of sexuality, along with his journalistic accounts of the revolutionary movement in Iran.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29186	POLSCI	 355S	FOUCAULT	This seminar is aimed at understanding Michel Foucault's innovative theories of how political and social power functions and is organized. Foucault reoriented the understanding of power from a centralized, state-centered attribute to a series of practices distributed in different social institutions. We will approach his theorical propositions through his writings on the history of the prison and the history of sexuality, along with his journalistic accounts of the revolutionary movement in Iran.	Seminar
29187	AAAS	 265S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29187	AAAS	 265S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29187	AAAS	 265S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CZ) Civilizations
29187	AAAS	 265S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(W) Writing
29187	AAAS	 265S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	Seminar
29187	ARTSVIS	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29187	ARTSVIS	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29187	ARTSVIS	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CZ) Civilizations
29187	ARTSVIS	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(W) Writing
29187	ARTSVIS	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	Seminar
29187	GSF	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29187	GSF	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29187	GSF	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CZ) Civilizations
29187	GSF	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(W) Writing
29187	GSF	 263S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	Seminar
29187	LIT	 260S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29187	LIT	 260S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29187	LIT	 260S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(CZ) Civilizations
29187	LIT	 260S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	(W) Writing
29187	LIT	 260S	REPRESENTING BREAST CANCER	Analyzes representations of breast cancer in feminist literature, art, and film. Drawing on health feminism, feminist medical ethics, and disability studies, explores what those representations tell us about the intersections among gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability in both the Global North and South. Sets artistic representations of breast cancer against the hyper-sexualization of breasts in capitalism's visual cultures and the spectacles of breast cancer activism. Shows how literature, art, and film can reveal health care's material conditions as well as breast cancer's psychic complexities.	Seminar
29188	AMES	316	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29188	AMES	316	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
29188	AMES	316	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29188	CULANTH	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29188	CULANTH	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
29188	CULANTH	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29188	GSF	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29188	GSF	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
29188	GSF	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29188	LIT	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29188	LIT	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
29188	LIT	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29188	ROMST	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29188	ROMST	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(CZ) Civilizations
29188	ROMST	314	INTRO TO CRITICAL THEORY	This course is an introduction to fundamental texts and concepts in the history of critical theory. We will be expanding the scope of our examination well beyond the remit of the Frankfurt School, to which the term 'critical theory' is often linked and look at key texts in the history of political philosophy, social theory, linguistics and language philosophy, gender studies, critical race theory, and postcolonialism. All our readings will be primary literature from what might be dubbed a 'critical theory cannon' and is intended to introduce students in the humanities and qualitative social sciences to essential and foundational materials.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29189	AAAS	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29189	AAAS	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29189	AAAS	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(W) Writing
29189	AAAS	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	Seminar
29189	ARTSVIS	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29189	ARTSVIS	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29189	ARTSVIS	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(W) Writing
29189	ARTSVIS	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	Seminar
29189	ENGLISH	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29189	ENGLISH	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29189	ENGLISH	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(W) Writing
29189	ENGLISH	 353S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	Seminar
29189	GSF	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29189	GSF	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29189	GSF	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(W) Writing
29189	GSF	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	Seminar
29189	LIT	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29189	LIT	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29189	LIT	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	(W) Writing
29189	LIT	 355S	BLACK FEMINISM AND FASHION	Black feminist perspectives on clothing and fashion. Explores traditions in which Black artists and writers make clothing a primary theme. Presenting photographic, painted, and literary portrayals by and of Black people across the diaspora, and bringing together the study of visual culture, material culture, and literary studies, reveals fashion and clothing as aesthetic practices of everyday life that defy the objectifying effects of racism and sexism. Engages with scholarship that explores slavery's and colonialism's impact on gender and sexuality and examines how artists and writers work within and against those impacts to document the self-fashioning in Black cultural life.	Seminar
29190	ENGLISH	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29190	ENGLISH	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29190	ENGLISH	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29190	ENGLISH	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	Seminar
29190	GSF	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29190	GSF	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29190	GSF	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29190	GSF	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	Seminar
29190	LIT	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29190	LIT	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29190	LIT	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29190	LIT	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	Seminar
29190	PHIL	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29190	PHIL	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29190	PHIL	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29190	PHIL	 460S	WEIL, BEAUVOIR, MURDOCH	Simone Weil (1909-44), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-86), and Iris Murdoch (1919-99) are towering figures in the history of European philosophy. Yet they have all, in different ways, become somewhat marginal to the philosophical mainstream. All three wrote on ethics. Weil wrote on labor, society, affliction, and grace. Beauvoir wrote novels, memoirs, and The Second Sex, a groundbreaking feminist analysis of women's situation. Inspired by Weil, Murdoch wrote about attention and the good and became one of the UKs leading novelists. The course will introduce students to their writing across genres, and situate their work about their respective national traditions.	Seminar
29191	BIOLOGY	 495S	SCIENTIFIC ARGUMENT IN WRITING	Seminar version of Biology 495. Conventions of scientific writing, focusing on the process of writing a thesis or other major research paper in the natural sciences. Course intended for Candidates for Graduation with Distinction in Biology.	(W) Writing
29191	BIOLOGY	 495S	SCIENTIFIC ARGUMENT IN WRITING	Seminar version of Biology 495. Conventions of scientific writing, focusing on the process of writing a thesis or other major research paper in the natural sciences. Course intended for Candidates for Graduation with Distinction in Biology.	Seminar
29192	GERMAN	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29192	GERMAN	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29192	GERMAN	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
29192	GERMAN	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
29192	GERMAN	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	Seminar
29192	HISTORY	 445S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29192	HISTORY	 445S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29192	HISTORY	 445S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
29192	HISTORY	 445S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
29192	HISTORY	 445S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	Seminar
29192	JEWISHST	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29192	JEWISHST	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29192	JEWISHST	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(CZ) Civilizations
29192	JEWISHST	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	(FL) Foreign Language
29192	JEWISHST	 432S	MODERN GERMAN-JEWISH CULTURE	Explores the outsized intellectual and cultural output of Jews in pre-WWII Europe. The birth of psychoanalysis and the fallout of Jewish assimilation in Vienna. The legendary Golem figure and the writings of Franz Kafka and his circle in Prague. Avant-garde Jewish artists, writers, and filmmakers in Weimar Berlin. Each unit examines specific historical contexts and broader artistic movements. Topics include secularization and conversion; hybrid identities; emigration to Palestine and the U.S.; antisemitism and rising fascism; and 'authentic' Jewishness in Eastern Europe. Taught entirely in German. Recommended prerequisite: a 300-level German course or equivalent.	Seminar
29224	AMES	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29224	AMES	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29224	AMES	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CZ) Civilizations
29224	CULANTH	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29224	CULANTH	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29224	CULANTH	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CZ) Civilizations
29224	HISTORY	 169FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29224	HISTORY	 169FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29224	HISTORY	 169FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CZ) Civilizations
29224	ICS	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29224	ICS	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29224	ICS	 180FS	HEROES AND VILLAINS	Considering the historical culture of disobedience in the Middle East and the significant actors as superheroes and villains depending on the time and their affiliations. Investigating how the dissident voices are constructed and performed from pre-modern esoteric practices in dervish convents, or coffee houses to print culture and social media in modern times. Discussing major themes such as protest and propaganda, censorship and self-censorship, and surveillance and counter-surveillance through films, poetry, graphic novels, and music.	(CZ) Civilizations
29227	CULANTH	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29227	CULANTH	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(CZ) Civilizations
29227	CULANTH	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29227	CULANTH	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29227	ECON	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29227	ECON	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(CZ) Civilizations
29227	ECON	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29227	ECON	227	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29227	SOCIOL	237	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29227	SOCIOL	237	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(CZ) Civilizations
29227	SOCIOL	237	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29227	SOCIOL	237	INTERNET AND TECHNOLOGY	This course will explore the role of the internet and new technologies in our society. We will examine the history of the rise of the computer age, and then cover questions that include surveillance and algorithmic targeting; cybercommerce and crypto; AI and robots; social media and celebrity; labor rights and profit-making; and the changing nature of daily life in a wireless world. There will be several guest speakers as well as readings, films, and other content.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29228	AMES	 236S	OTTOMAN EMPIRE TO MIDDLE EAST	Major cultural, political and historical issues in the transition from the late Ottoman Empire to the Modern Middle East. Emphasis on Ottoman legacies in the 20th century. Readings and discussions analyze end of empire through colonial intervention, WWI, the caliphate, political violence, cultural revolution, national self-determination, coups, post-colonial states, and Islamist mobilization. Interdisciplinary focus on cultural texts, including film, popular culture and literature. Thematic discussions on women/gender, identity- and state-formation, historiography, and hierarchies of race and religion.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29228	AMES	 236S	OTTOMAN EMPIRE TO MIDDLE EAST	Major cultural, political and historical issues in the transition from the late Ottoman Empire to the Modern Middle East. Emphasis on Ottoman legacies in the 20th century. Readings and discussions analyze end of empire through colonial intervention, WWI, the caliphate, political violence, cultural revolution, national self-determination, coups, post-colonial states, and Islamist mobilization. Interdisciplinary focus on cultural texts, including film, popular culture and literature. Thematic discussions on women/gender, identity- and state-formation, historiography, and hierarchies of race and religion.	(CZ) Civilizations
29228	AMES	 236S	OTTOMAN EMPIRE TO MIDDLE EAST	Major cultural, political and historical issues in the transition from the late Ottoman Empire to the Modern Middle East. Emphasis on Ottoman legacies in the 20th century. Readings and discussions analyze end of empire through colonial intervention, WWI, the caliphate, political violence, cultural revolution, national self-determination, coups, post-colonial states, and Islamist mobilization. Interdisciplinary focus on cultural texts, including film, popular culture and literature. Thematic discussions on women/gender, identity- and state-formation, historiography, and hierarchies of race and religion.	Seminar
29228	ICS	 236S	OTTOMAN EMPIRE TO MIDDLE EAST	Major cultural, political and historical issues in the transition from the late Ottoman Empire to the Modern Middle East. Emphasis on Ottoman legacies in the 20th century. Readings and discussions analyze end of empire through colonial intervention, WWI, the caliphate, political violence, cultural revolution, national self-determination, coups, post-colonial states, and Islamist mobilization. Interdisciplinary focus on cultural texts, including film, popular culture and literature. Thematic discussions on women/gender, identity- and state-formation, historiography, and hierarchies of race and religion.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29228	ICS	 236S	OTTOMAN EMPIRE TO MIDDLE EAST	Major cultural, political and historical issues in the transition from the late Ottoman Empire to the Modern Middle East. Emphasis on Ottoman legacies in the 20th century. Readings and discussions analyze end of empire through colonial intervention, WWI, the caliphate, political violence, cultural revolution, national self-determination, coups, post-colonial states, and Islamist mobilization. Interdisciplinary focus on cultural texts, including film, popular culture and literature. Thematic discussions on women/gender, identity- and state-formation, historiography, and hierarchies of race and religion.	(CZ) Civilizations
29228	ICS	 236S	OTTOMAN EMPIRE TO MIDDLE EAST	Major cultural, political and historical issues in the transition from the late Ottoman Empire to the Modern Middle East. Emphasis on Ottoman legacies in the 20th century. Readings and discussions analyze end of empire through colonial intervention, WWI, the caliphate, political violence, cultural revolution, national self-determination, coups, post-colonial states, and Islamist mobilization. Interdisciplinary focus on cultural texts, including film, popular culture and literature. Thematic discussions on women/gender, identity- and state-formation, historiography, and hierarchies of race and religion.	Seminar
29230	GERMAN	 332S	CREATIVE WRITING IN GERMAN	In this course, students explore contemporary German poetry as both cultural object and creative endeavor while regularly writing and revising their own poems and translations. Readings include poems by living German poets and translators, as well as interviews with poets and translators, blog posts on major German literary websites, and essays. Students will receive feedback on their poetic and interpretive work from both peers and professors, and revision of writing is a key aspect of the course. This course is taught entirely in German, and the majority of texts are in German. Recommended prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29230	GERMAN	 332S	CREATIVE WRITING IN GERMAN	In this course, students explore contemporary German poetry as both cultural object and creative endeavor while regularly writing and revising their own poems and translations. Readings include poems by living German poets and translators, as well as interviews with poets and translators, blog posts on major German literary websites, and essays. Students will receive feedback on their poetic and interpretive work from both peers and professors, and revision of writing is a key aspect of the course. This course is taught entirely in German, and the majority of texts are in German. Recommended prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29230	GERMAN	 332S	CREATIVE WRITING IN GERMAN	In this course, students explore contemporary German poetry as both cultural object and creative endeavor while regularly writing and revising their own poems and translations. Readings include poems by living German poets and translators, as well as interviews with poets and translators, blog posts on major German literary websites, and essays. Students will receive feedback on their poetic and interpretive work from both peers and professors, and revision of writing is a key aspect of the course. This course is taught entirely in German, and the majority of texts are in German. Recommended prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	(FL) Foreign Language
29230	GERMAN	 332S	CREATIVE WRITING IN GERMAN	In this course, students explore contemporary German poetry as both cultural object and creative endeavor while regularly writing and revising their own poems and translations. Readings include poems by living German poets and translators, as well as interviews with poets and translators, blog posts on major German literary websites, and essays. Students will receive feedback on their poetic and interpretive work from both peers and professors, and revision of writing is a key aspect of the course. This course is taught entirely in German, and the majority of texts are in German. Recommended prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	(W) Writing
29230	GERMAN	 332S	CREATIVE WRITING IN GERMAN	In this course, students explore contemporary German poetry as both cultural object and creative endeavor while regularly writing and revising their own poems and translations. Readings include poems by living German poets and translators, as well as interviews with poets and translators, blog posts on major German literary websites, and essays. Students will receive feedback on their poetic and interpretive work from both peers and professors, and revision of writing is a key aspect of the course. This course is taught entirely in German, and the majority of texts are in German. Recommended prerequisite: German 204 or equivalent. Not open to native speakers of German.	Seminar
29232	BRAINSOC	 401T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics, and law. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing faculty-led research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, fieldwork, and other relevant learning or research experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent is required.	(R) Research
29232	BRAINSOC	 401T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics, and law. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing faculty-led research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, fieldwork, and other relevant learning or research experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent is required.	(SS) Social Sciences
29232	BRAINSOC	 401T	BASS CONNX BRAIN & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary by semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to build connections between neuroscience and socially challenging questions in healthcare, the humanities, policy, economics, ethics, and law. Teams may include external partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to ongoing faculty-led research. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, lab work, fieldwork, and other relevant learning or research experiences. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent is required.	Tutorial
29263	COMPSCI	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	(CZ) Civilizations
29263	COMPSCI	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29263	COMPSCI	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29263	COMPSCI	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	Seminar
29263	ETHICS	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	(CZ) Civilizations
29263	ETHICS	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29263	ETHICS	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29263	ETHICS	 247S	HUMAN FLOURISHING, DIGITAL AGE	The digital age has enhanced human life in many ways: communication is faster, medicine is better, and our knowledge of the world is deeper. But it has also changed the nature of work, society, and our sense of well-being, and raised fundamental questions about the meaning and purpose of human life. This course asks what it means for humans to flourish in a digital age. It considers how new technologies through the centuries have impacted human flourishing, making certain aspects easier and others harder, and perhaps even altering our conception of what flourishing looks like. Our ultimate goal is to ponder together how we should practically live in today's digital age. For sophomores only.	Seminar
29278	ISS	 393T	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to explore the evolution of society and culture through the lens of information, using the latest computational methods to address pressing problems in new and creative ways. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(STS) Science, Technology, and Society
29278	ISS	 393T	INFORMATION, SOCIETY & CULTURE	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to explore the evolution of society and culture through the lens of information, using the latest computational methods to address pressing problems in new and creative ways. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
29282	GSF	 244S	POLITICS OF MOTHERHOOD	Following Adrienne Rich's lead, this course will consider motherhood as both institution and experience. Topics to be covered include Mothers of the Movement, Black Lives Matter mothers, race and maternal health, 'mommy wars' and battles over breastfeeding, attachment parenting, work/family balance, security mothers, soccer moms, working mothers, bad mothers, other-mothers, and decisions not to mother.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29282	GSF	 244S	POLITICS OF MOTHERHOOD	Following Adrienne Rich's lead, this course will consider motherhood as both institution and experience. Topics to be covered include Mothers of the Movement, Black Lives Matter mothers, race and maternal health, 'mommy wars' and battles over breastfeeding, attachment parenting, work/family balance, security mothers, soccer moms, working mothers, bad mothers, other-mothers, and decisions not to mother.	(CZ) Civilizations
29282	GSF	 244S	POLITICS OF MOTHERHOOD	Following Adrienne Rich's lead, this course will consider motherhood as both institution and experience. Topics to be covered include Mothers of the Movement, Black Lives Matter mothers, race and maternal health, 'mommy wars' and battles over breastfeeding, attachment parenting, work/family balance, security mothers, soccer moms, working mothers, bad mothers, other-mothers, and decisions not to mother.	Seminar
29284	FMKT	 390S	TOPICS IN FINANCIAL MARKETS	Topics vary by semester. Prerequisite: Economics 101D. Check individual semester offerings for additional prerequisites.	Seminar
29284	FMKT	 390S	TOPICS IN FINANCIAL MARKETS	Topics vary by semester. Prerequisite: Economics 101D. Check individual semester offerings for additional prerequisites.	Topics Course
29286	ARTS&SCI	 201S	ETHICS, CITIZEN& EXAMINED LIFE	Ethics, Citizenship and the Examined Life explores several related themes. It attends to traditional Asian and Western ideals, and contemporary analyses of moral self-cultivation, personal achievement, and meaning to obligations beyond the self to family, community, religion, party, nation, and humanity,  and whether it is possible to reconcile the criteria for 'doing the right thing' across cultures and ages; and to the ways in which Asian and Western philosophical and political traditions have addressed the relationship between a meritocratic elite and democratic forms of government.	Seminar
29287	RACESOC	 397T	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Teams often work with external experts and partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(SS) Social Sciences
29287	RACESOC	 397T	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Teams often work with external experts and partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
29288	CULANTH	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29288	CULANTH	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(SS) Social Sciences
29288	CULANTH	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	Seminar
29288	GSF	 241S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29288	GSF	 241S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(SS) Social Sciences
29288	GSF	 241S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	Seminar
29288	SCISOC	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29288	SCISOC	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(SS) Social Sciences
29288	SCISOC	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	Seminar
29288	SOCIOL	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29288	SOCIOL	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	(SS) Social Sciences
29288	SOCIOL	 242S	BODIES AT WORK	This course traces the dynamic relationship between bodies and economies over the course of American history. If disability has been defined as the inability to work, then an exploration of disability necessitates an exploration of capitalism. Moving between disability studies and labor history, students will develop the conceptual tools necessary to understand capitalism through the lens of disability, while also generating new ways to think about disability via critical histories of capitalism. We will also look at how disabled people have pushed back, envisioning new ways of valuing bodies beyond productivity.	Seminar
29330	RACESOC	 393T	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Teams often work with external experts and partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29330	RACESOC	 393T	BASS CONNX RACE & SOCIETY	Bass Connections Year-long Project Team. Topics vary depending on semester and section. Teams of undergraduate and graduate students work with faculty to investigate how race intersects with various aspects of society and lived experience. Teams often work with external experts and partners. A team's work may run in parallel with or contribute to an ongoing research project. Teams will participate in seminars, data collection and analysis, field work and/or other learning experiences relevant to the project. Requires final paper or product containing significant analysis and interpretation. Instructor consent required.	Tutorial
29331	AAAS	 303S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29331	AAAS	 303S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29331	AAAS	 303S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
29331	AAAS	 303S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	Seminar
29331	ENGLISH	 378S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29331	ENGLISH	 378S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29331	ENGLISH	 378S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
29331	ENGLISH	 378S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	Seminar
29331	GSF	 253S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(ALP) Arts, Literature & Performance
29331	GSF	 253S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29331	GSF	 253S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	(CZ) Civilizations
29331	GSF	 253S	POP ARTS & CULTURE IN AFRICA	This course explores the popular arts and cultural production in Africa across a range of media. It will explore the links and relationships between popular culture and fiction, popular literatures, be they in magazines or pamphlets, consumption, gender, and desire in the popular imagination, as well as popular sonic and visual cultures in Africa.	Seminar
29380	AAAS	 117FS	RACE AND LANGUAGE	We will examine the relationship between race and language by interrogating texts in medical ethics, gleaning from them wider lessons for navigating prior controversies at the juncture of racial and social difference and medicine (for instance, phrenology and eugenics). We will also examine features of medical and scientific practice that overlap with the study of language, such as contract, disclosure, survey design and policymaking, and how the medical profession and medical practice work to correct past mistakes in interactions with different communities of race.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29380	AAAS	 117FS	RACE AND LANGUAGE	We will examine the relationship between race and language by interrogating texts in medical ethics, gleaning from them wider lessons for navigating prior controversies at the juncture of racial and social difference and medicine (for instance, phrenology and eugenics). We will also examine features of medical and scientific practice that overlap with the study of language, such as contract, disclosure, survey design and policymaking, and how the medical profession and medical practice work to correct past mistakes in interactions with different communities of race.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29380	EDUC	 117FS	RACE AND LANGUAGE	We will examine the relationship between race and language by interrogating texts in medical ethics, gleaning from them wider lessons for navigating prior controversies at the juncture of racial and social difference and medicine (for instance, phrenology and eugenics). We will also examine features of medical and scientific practice that overlap with the study of language, such as contract, disclosure, survey design and policymaking, and how the medical profession and medical practice work to correct past mistakes in interactions with different communities of race.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29380	EDUC	 117FS	RACE AND LANGUAGE	We will examine the relationship between race and language by interrogating texts in medical ethics, gleaning from them wider lessons for navigating prior controversies at the juncture of racial and social difference and medicine (for instance, phrenology and eugenics). We will also examine features of medical and scientific practice that overlap with the study of language, such as contract, disclosure, survey design and policymaking, and how the medical profession and medical practice work to correct past mistakes in interactions with different communities of race.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
29380	LINGUIST	 113FS	RACE AND LANGUAGE	We will examine the relationship between race and language by interrogating texts in medical ethics, gleaning from them wider lessons for navigating prior controversies at the juncture of racial and social difference and medicine (for instance, phrenology and eugenics). We will also examine features of medical and scientific practice that overlap with the study of language, such as contract, disclosure, survey design and policymaking, and how the medical profession and medical practice work to correct past mistakes in interactions with different communities of race.	(CCI) Cross Cultural Inquiry
29380	LINGUIST	 113FS	RACE AND LANGUAGE	We will examine the relationship between race and language by interrogating texts in medical ethics, gleaning from them wider lessons for navigating prior controversies at the juncture of racial and social difference and medicine (for instance, phrenology and eugenics). We will also examine features of medical and scientific practice that overlap with the study of language, such as contract, disclosure, survey design and policymaking, and how the medical profession and medical practice work to correct past mistakes in interactions with different communities of race.	(EI) Ethical Inquiry
